"ARRARÁS: Dr. Carson, concerning this recommendation of the report, are you, as a candidate, getting it?",
"ARRARÁS: The first part of the question is, there was a report that recommended that in order to approach Hispanics and bring them to vote for the Republican Party, certain things needed to happen.",
"And one of them was that they shouldn't feel like they were going to get kicked out of the United States, otherwise they wouldn't pay attention to one more sentence from candidates.",
"ARRARÁS: Mr. Trump, it is common knowledge that the Hispanic vote is very important in this race. You keep saying that Hispanics love you.",
"ARRARÁS: And, yes, you won the Hispanic vote in Nevada.",
"ARRARÁS: But a brand new Telemundo poll says that three out of four Hispanics that vote nationwide have a negative opinion of you. They don't like you. Wouldn't that make you an unelectable...",
"ARRARÁS: ... candidate in a general election?",
"ARRARÁS: You used to say that you love...[laughter]",
"ARRARÁS: For the record, you have said publicly that you loved Telemundo in the past. But it is not just a Telemundo poll. We have...",
"ARRARÁS: All right. Well, it's not the only poll.",
"ARRARÁS: Just last night — let me — let me finish, please.",
"Just last night, The Washington Post showed that 80 percent of Hispanic voters in their polls have a negative view of you. And concerning the Nevada victory, allow me to explain that the poll in Nevada was based on a tiny sample, statistically insignificant of only about 100 — let me finish please — of 100 Hispanic Republicans in the state of Nevada.",
"ARRARÁS: I am making reference — I am making reference to Hispanic voters nationwide in a general election.",
"ARRARÁS: Thank you, Governor. [applause]",
"ARRARÁS: Mr. Trump, you have been very vocal about securing the Mexican border, but ISIS has called upon its supporters to conduct attacks on our neighbor to the North, Canada.",
"As a matter of fact, U.S. officials have warned that it is the Canadian border which is the most significant threat. You have said that you will not build a wall in Canada. When it comes to national security, and the threat of terrorism, why does Mexico need a wall, and Canada doesn't? Isn't that, like, closing the front door, and leaving the back door open?",
"ARRARÁS: I want to talk to you, Senator Rubio, about Puerto Rico. As you know, Puerto Rico's in the midst of financial collapse, unable to pay it's debt of $72 billion dollars. Puerto Rico is asking for bankruptcy protection which would give Puerto Rico, and Puerto Ricans, which are U.S. citizens, you know that — the tools to restructure the debt. That is the same debt the other 50 states have.",
"You oppose granting Puerto Rico that bankruptcy protection. You say that it is only a last resort measure, but the government of Puerto Rico has said that bankruptcy is it's last resort. That that's where they are now. How do you explain this very strong stance to the hundreds of thousands of Puerto Ricans that vote across the U.S. , and particularly in your state of Florida?",
