"BACHMANN: Well, it's very clear in the last five years I have won four elections as the first Republican woman ever to win out of the state of Minnesota. And I did that by attracting not only Republicans but also independents and Democrats as well.",
"Because people wanted to know, who could they trust? They knew that in me they may not always agree with me but they knew that I was a woman who said what she meant and meant what she said. And they respected that level of authenticity and sincerity.",
"And They also knew that I was an action person. That I wasn't just going to sit on my hands. I was going to work and serve them. And that is what I've done. I have worked very hard in the United States Congress in the brief time that I have been there.",
"I'm 55 years old. I spent 50 years as a real person. And now five years going toe-to-toe with Barack Obama, taking him on, on every issue from Dodd-Frank to cap and trade to illegal immigration to \"Obama-care.\" And I will do that as president of the United States. That is my proven track record. [applause]",
"There are many in this audience tonight, sir, who fear that possibility. And don't think you are up to the fight. Allay them of their concerns.",
"BACHMANN: As president of the United States I would have called all 535 members of congress to come sit down in Washington last summer looking at the debt ceiling crisis. And what I would have done is said there are three principles we are going to follow, because the first one needs to be no new taxes. We're taxed enough already.",
"The second principle needed to be that government can't spend any more money than what it is taking in.",
"And the third principle had to be that we were going to follow the constitution of the United States. What that would have meant we would have looked at $15 trillion debt in the eye and said we are not going to add one more cent to it. We are going to prioritize our spending. And we're going to put the reform in these long-term programs now, not wait eight months or five months. We are going to reform right now.",
"BACHMANN: Well, it's the fact that -- that we know that he cashed paychecks from Freddie Mac. That's the best evidence that you can have, over $1.6 million. And, frankly, I am shocked listening to the former speaker of the House, because he's defending the continuing practice of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.",
"There's a big difference between a credit union and Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. And they were the epicenter of the mortgage financial meltdown. I was trying to see these two entities put into bankruptcy, because they, frankly, need to go away, when the speaker had his hand out and he was taking $1.6 million to influence senior Republicans to keep the scam going in Washington, D.C. That's absolutely wrong. We can't have as our nominee for the Republican Party someone who continues to stand for Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. They need to be shut down, not built up. [applause]",
"BACHMANN: Let me -- let me...",
"BACHMANN: Well, after the debates that we had last week, PolitiFact came out and said that everything that I said was true. And the evidence is that Speaker Gingrich took $1.6 million. You don't need to be within the technical definition of being a lobbyist to still be influence-peddling with senior Republicans in Washington, D.C., to get them to do your bidding.",
"And the bidding was to keep this grandiose scam of Freddie Mac going. That's -- that is something that our nominee can't stand for. We have to shut down these government enterprises. And we've got to end them. And I think that's shocking that he's saying that.",
"BACHMANN: Well where it needs to end is under the Constitution of the United States. That's the real issue. Are the courts following the Constitution or aren't they following the Constitution? It isn't just Congress that gets it wrong, it's the courts that get it wrong as well.",
"BACHMANN: Well what we need to do about it is have the -- both the president and the United States Congress take their authority back and I would agree with Newt Gingrich that I think that the Congress and the president of the United States have failed to take their authority. Because now we've gotten to the point where we think the final arbitrator of law is the court system. It isn't. The intention of the founders was that the courts would be the least powerful system of government.",
"And if we give to the courts, the right to make law, then the people will have lost their representation. They need to hold onto their representation. That's why I commend Iowans, because they chose not to retain three judges that decided that marriage would be... [applause]",
"BACHMANN: ...and Iowans decided to take their Constitution back. That's what the American people need to do, take the Constitution back and as president of the United States, I would only appoint judges to the Supreme Court who believe in the original intent of the Constitution.",
"BACHMANN: Well, I do think that there are good justices. And I would put Antonin Scalia at the top of the list. I would also include Clarence Thomas and John Roberts and Alito. I think they are all marvelous. It could be easy to pick any one of them.",
"BACHMANN: Well, I think clearly the biggest mistake that President Obama has made -- and there are many when it comes to foreign policy -- has been the decision that he made regarding Iraq. He was essentially given on a silver platter victory in Iraq, and he's choosing intentionally to lose the peace.",
"And we all know what's going to happen. We know that Iran is going to be the hegemon and try to come into Iraq and have the dominant influence. And then Iraq will essentially have dominance from the Persian Gulf all the way to the Mediterranean through its ally, Syria.",
"And with all due respect to Ron Paul, I think I have never heard a more dangerous answer for American security than the one that we just heard from Ron Paul. And I'll tell you the reason why. [applause]",
"And the reason -- the reason -- the reason why I would say that is because we know, without a shadow of a doubt, that Iran will take a nuclear weapon, they will use it to wipe our ally, Israel, off the face of the map, and they've stated they will use it against the United States of America.",
"Look no further than the Iranian constitution, which states unequivocally that their admission -- their mission is to extend jihad across the world and eventually to set up a worldwide caliphate. We would be fools and knaves to ignore their purpose and their plan. [applause]",
"BACHMANN: And the point would be -- can I respond to that? Can I...",
"BACHMANN: Can I respond? And the problem would be the greatest under-reaction in world history if we have an avowed madman who uses that nuclear weapon to wipe nations off the face of the Earth. And we have an IAEA report that just recently came out that said, literally, Iran is within just months of being able to obtain that weapon. Nothing could be more dangerous than the comments that we just heard.",
"[crosstalk]",
"BACHMANN: It's an IAEA report.",
"BACHMANN: And if we agree with that...[booing]... if we agree with that, the United States' people could be at risk of our national security.",
"BACHMANN: But as president, I stand on the side of...",
"Mr. Speaker, you have been openly critical of the United Nations. For example on the topic of Palestinian efforts for statehood at the U.S. you said, quote, \"we don't need to fund a corrupt institution to beat up on our allies.\"",
"In a Gingrich administration would the United States leave the UN?",
"BACHMANN: Well, what we needed to do was find out what the true cause of the problem was. And the Obama administration wasn't willing to have a true and thoughtful investigation to get to the bottom of it.",
"President Obama jumped to conclusions, and he put a moratorium on accessing American oil in the Gulf region that actually hurt the economy more than the original disaster. But I wanted to add something on Keystone. Keystone is extremely important, the pipeline.",
"This pipeline is one that would have brought at least 20,000 jobs, at least $6.5 billion worth of economic activity. And if I was president of the United States, I wouldn't have taken the decision that President Obama did. His entire calculus was based upon his reelection effort. Because quite frankly, the radical environmentalists said to President Obama, you pass Keystone, we're not going to do your volunteer door-to-door work.",
"That's what Barack Obama has done to this country. He's put his reelection over adding jobs and making the United States energy independent. I would have made the decision as president of the United States, we would put Keystone online immediately. [applause]",
"BACHMANN: Well, my concern is the fact that the Republican Party can't get the issue of life wrong. This is a basic part of our party. Just last night we gathered in Des Moines to talk about this issue, because it's that crucial to our party. And one of the concerns that I had is that when Speaker Gingrich was Speaker of the House he had an opportunity to de-fund Planned Parenthood. And he chose not to take it. That is a big issue.",
"And also I think even more troubling when he was in Washington, D.C., he made an affirmative statement that he would not only support but he would campaign for Republicans who are in support of the barbaric procedure known as partial birth abortion. I could never do that.",
"And as a matter of fact, George Wilt asked the question of Speaker Gingrich. he said this: he said, \"is it a virtue to tolerate infanticide?\" This is a seminal issue and something we can't get wrong. As president of the United States, I will be 100 percent pro- life from conception until natural death.",
"BACHMANN: Can I rebuttal, because have a rebuttal for getting my facts wrong?",
"BACHMANN: Because this isn't just once, I think it's outrageous to continue to say over and over through the debate that I don't have my facts right. When as a matter of fact, I do. I'm a serious candidate for president of the United States. And my facts are accurate.",
"Speaker Gingrich said that he would actively support and campaign for Republicans who got behind the barbaric practice of partial birth abortions. This is not a small issue. This is a big issue.",
"I think George Will was right when he asked that question. What virtue is there in tolerating infanticide?",
"BACHMANN: Ronald Reagan also brought clarity to the -- his opponents that he had in his primaries, as well. And he famously asked the question, in 1980, are we better off today than we were four years under Jimmy Carter? And I think the republic is in far worse shape today under Barack Obama's leadership.",
"That's what we're exposing now. Who will be -- who will continue that legacy of Ronald Reagan? And who will take Barack Obama on toe to toe and hold him accountable? And I think that I'll be the best one to do that on the stage."
