"BACHMANN: And after the debate, I talked to that young man, and I said I wish I could have answered that question, because I want to tell you what my answer is: I think you earned every dollar. You should get to keep every dollar that you earn. That's your money; that's not the government's money. [applause]",
"That's the whole point. Barack Obama seems to think that when we earn money, it belongs to him and we're lucky just to keep a little bit of it. I don't think that at all. I think when people make money, it's their money.",
"Obviously, we have to give money back to the government so that we can run the government, but we have to have a completely different mindset. And that mindset is, the American people are the genius of this economy. It certainly isn't government that's the genius. And that's the two views.",
"President Obama has embraced a view of government-directed temporary fixes and gimmicks. They don't work. He's destroyed the economy. What does work is private solutions that are permanent in the private sector. That gives certainty; that will grow our economy. [applause]",
"BACHMANN: We need that to do with education what has always worked historically, and that's local control with parents. What doesn't work is what we see happen right now.",
"I'm a mom five biological kids. We've raised 23 foster children in our home. The reason why I got involved in politics was because of the concern I had about our foster children and the education they were getting. What I would do as president of the United States is pass the mother of all repeal bills on education. I would take the entire federal education law, repeal it. Then I would go over to the Department of Education, I'd turn off the lights, I would lock the door and I would send all the money back to the states and localities.",
"BACHMANN: Well, the reason why he's asking this question is because the federal government has failed the American people and has failed the states. It's reprehensible that President Obama has sued the state of Arizona and the governor of Arizona for trying to protect the people in Arizona. That's wrong. [applause]",
"BACHMANN: As president of the United States, I would do what my job would demand of me. That's to uphold the sovereignty of the United States of America.",
"To do that, I would build a fence on America's southern border on every mile, on every yard, on every foot, on every inch of the southern border. I think that's what we have to do, not only build it, but then also have sufficient border security and enforce the laws that are on the books with the ICE agents, with our border security.",
"And here's the other thing I would do. I would not allow taxpayer-funded benefits for illegal aliens or for their children. [applause]",
"BACHMANN: That's a madness. End the madness for illegal aliens to come into the United States of America.",
"BACHMANN: Bret? Bret?",
"BACHMANN: Excuse me, Bret? Could I weigh in on this?",
"BACHMANN: I'd like to weigh on this, because according to the State Department's website, there are four nations that are state sponsors of terror. Cuba is one of those nations. We would never have flights between the United States and Cuba. It's a state sponsor of terror. [applause]",
"BACHMANN: Well, I think that Thomas Jefferson stated it best. He was the author of the -- the religious liberty that he valued so much, and that's the -- the United States government should not be a state church. That's really what the fundamental was of separation of church and state.",
"And when Jefferson wrote a letter to the Danbury Baptists, the Danbury Baptists wanted to know, will you have a national church in the United States? He said no, because we believe in freedom of conscience, we believe in freedom of religious liberty, and expression, and speech.",
"That's a foundational principle in the United States. But that doesn't mean that we aren't people of faith and that people of faith shouldn't be allowed to exercise religious liberty in the public square. Of course we should be able to... [applause] ... (inaudible) exercise our faith. And -- and whether that expression occurs in a public school or occurs -- occurs in a public building, we should be able to allow -- to have freedom for all people to express our belief in God. [applause]",
"BACHMANN: Well, first I didn't make that claim nor did I make that statement. Immediately after the debate, a mother came up to me and she was visibly shaken and heart broken because of what her daughter had gone through. I so I only related what her story was.",
"But here's the real issue, Governor Perry mandated a health care decision on all 12-year-old little girls in the state of Texas. And by that mandate, those girls had to have a shot for a sexually transmitted disease. That is not appropriate to be a decision that a governor makes.",
"It is appropriate that parents make that decision in consultation with their doctor.",
"But here's the even more important point, because Governor Perry made a decision where he gave parental rights to a big drug company.",
"That big drug company gave him campaign contributions and hired his former chief of staff to lobby him to benefit the big drug company.",
"That's what was wrong with that picture. [applause]",
"BACHMANN: I agree. It's time to reach for the brass ring of liberty once again. And we can. The signature issue of Barack Obama and his presidency has been the passage of Obamacare. This week, a study came out from UBS that said the number-one reason why employers aren't hiring is because of Obamacare.",
"That's why I introduced the bill to repeal Obamacare. And as president of the United States, that's the very first thing I would do, is repeal Obamacare.",
"BACHMANN: Obviously, we need to have a strong constitutional conservative, and that's what I would look for in a vice president.",
"But I want to say this, as well. Every four years, conservatives are told that we have to settle, and it's anybody but Obama. That's what we're hearing this year.",
"I don't think that's true. I think if there's any year -- President Obama has the lowest public approval ratings of any president in modern times. He hasn't gone to the basement yet. It'll be a lot lower than what it is now. That's why we need to choose a candidate who represents conservatives and constitutional conservative positions. [applause]"
