"BACHMANN: I think if you look at the problem with the economic meltdown, you can trace it right back to the federal government, because it was the federal government that demanded that banks and mortgage companies lower platinum level lending standards to new lows.",
"BACHMANN: It was the federal government that pushed the subprime loans. It was the federal government that pushed the Community Reinvestment Act. It was Congressman Barney Frank and also Senator Chris Dodd that continued to push government-directed housing goals.",
"They pushed the banks to meet these rules. And if banks failed to meet those rules, then the federal government said we won't let you merge, we won't let you grow.",
"There's a real problem, and it began with the federal government, and it began with Freddie and Fannie. If you look at these secondary mortgage companies which the federal government is essentially backing 100 percent, they put American mortgages in a very difficult place.",
"We had artificially low interest rates, Freddie and Fannie were the center of the universe on the mortgage meltdown, and we had lending standards lowered for the first time in American history. The fault goes back to the federal government, and that's what's wrong with Dodd- Frank.",
"Dodd-Frank institutionalized all of these problems that were put into effect by the federal government. That's why I introduced the bill to repeal Dodd-Frank. It's the Jobs and Housing Destruction Act.",
"BACHMANN: We have a big problem today when it comes to Medicare, because we know that nine years from now, the Medicare hospital Part B trust fund is going to be dead-flat broke, so we've got to deal with this issue. I was in the White House with President Obama this summer. We asked him not once, but three times, \"President Obama, what is your plan to save Medicare?\"",
"And the president mumbled and he didn't give an answer the first time, the second time. And the third time the president said something very interesting, Karen. He said Obamacare.",
"I think that senior citizens across the country have no idea that President Obama plans for Medicare to collapse, and instead everyone will be pushed into Obamacare.",
"And just like Newt Gingrich said, the way that Obamacare runs, there's a board called IPAB. It's made up of 15 political appointees. These 15 political appointees will make all the major health care decisions for over 300 million Americans. I don't want 15 political appointees to make a health care decision for a beautiful, fragile 85- year-old woman who should be making her own decision.",
"BACHMANN: Charlie, last summer I was a leading voice in the wilderness of Washington and a lone voice, as a matter of fact, saying: Do not increase the debt ceiling. By that, what I was saying is, let's not give Barack Obama another $2.4 trillion blank check to spend.",
"Think of what this means. Our government right now -- this is significant -- we are spending 40 percent more than what we take in. We all paid a lot of taxes this year. We paid $2.2 trillion in taxes. That's a lot of money from all the American people. The American government spent 100 percent of that $2.2 trillion, but the travesty is they spent $1.5 trillion more than that. That's the problem.",
"Every year, we are spending about 40 percent more than what we take in. Our answer has to be that we cut back on the spending so we get to balance. We can't do this because all...",
"BACHMANN: ... all around us are young people that are going to be paying for this burden. And their tax rates won't be our tax rates. Their tax rates could come at some point.",
"Their overall effective burden -- I'm a federal tax lawyer. That's what I do for a living. And my -- my background is in economics. Their tax rate someday in their peak earning years, Charlie, could be as much as 75 percent. Who's going to get out of bed in the morning to go to work if they're paying 75 percent tax rates? We've got to get our spending house in order and cut back on spending.",
"BACHMANN: That's one piece of the answer. That's not the whole answer. But we have to cut back on spending.",
"BACHMANN: I would have to say that the 999 plan isn't a jobs plan, it is a tax plan. And I would say that from my experience being in Congress, but also as a federal tax lawyer, when you -- the last thing you would do is give Congress another pipeline of a revenue stream. And this gives Congress a pipeline in a sales tax.",
"A sales tax can also lead to value-added tax. The United States Congress put into place the Spanish-American War tax in 1888. We only partially repealed that in 2006. So once you get a new revenue stream, you are never going to get rid of it.",
"And one thing I would say is, when you take the 999 plan and you turn it upside down, I think the devil is in the details.",
"[laughter]",
"[crosstalk]",
"BACHMANN: Thank you.",
"Well, in the 1980s, Ronald Reagan produced an economic miracle, and while all of us were wishing and yearning for a third term for Ronald Reagan, Governor Perry, you were campaigning and co-chairing Al Gore's election campaign for president of the United States.",
"You went on to increase spending in Texas by over 50 percent. And you financed that spending by increasing bond debt by over 137 percent. That is exactly what Barack Obama has been doing, increasing debt by trillions of dollars.",
"How can we trust you to not go down the Obama way and overspend and pay for that spending with indebtedness on the backs of the next generations?",
"BACHMANN: Well, I do understand that. I'm -- I'm a mother of 28 kids, 22 foster kids, 5 biological kids. I get how difficult it is for young people right now to get jobs right out of college. It's very, very tough.",
"And the solutions that I'm offering in my plan, which if I can give a commercial, are at michelebachmann.com. The solutions that I'm offering aren't just a silver bullet. It's not just the tax code. It's also dealing with the regulatory burden, because businesses -- my husband and I started our own successful business. I'm 55. I spent my whole life in the private sector. I get job creation, too. And the business world is looking at 1.8 trillion every year in compliance costs with government regulations.",
"That has to go. So I want to get rid of that, it's the mother of all repeal bills. But the number one reason that employer say that they are not hiring today is \"Obama-care.\" And I was the leading critic for President Obama in Washington, D.C., against \"Obama-care.\" That is why I was the first member of Congress to introduce that bill to repeal \"Obama-care.\" I understand that is what is inhibiting job creation and job growth.",
"We have to repeal that. I also introduced and I fought on Barney Frank's committee against Dodd-Frank, which is the \"housing and jobs destruction act.\" That's why I was the chief author of that bill as well. There is much more to my solutions, go to michelebachmann.com and you can find out.",
"BACHMANN: I'd like to add to that, because the Dodd-Frank bill is the jobs and housing destruction act. And I have spoken to -- to Iowa bankers, and they told me that they are going to see the collapse of community banks, just like Mitt said, all across the state.",
"BACHMANN: I talked to a banker in Texas who owns multiple branch banks. He said he's going to lose $20 million on his bottom line this year because of all of the compliance.",
"So, government is putting a huge layer of regulation on banks. We will see literally thousands of banks close their doors. That will be hard for small business owners like you and like me. And so that's going to hurt real people and it will lead to job destruction.",
"That's why I introduced the bill to repeal Dodd-Frank, because it will hurt credit, not add to credit. And by the way, that's why we see the new $5 debit card fee that people are paying every month that they are upset about, because of Dodd-Frank. And that was insider dealing, because Senator Durbin had former staffers that came to lobby him on behalf of retailers.",
"This is dirty dealing. As president of the United States, I would end all of these payoffs to political donors by our legislators. That's wrong. That's got to end.",
"BACHMANN: Repeal \"Obama-care.\" Repeal \"Obama-care.\" GINGRICH: What Huntsman has done -- and she's right on repealing Dodd-Frank. I am shocked that the House Republicans have not repealed Dodd-Frank. They ought to do it now. They ought to repeal Sarbanes- Oxley now.",
"If we get back on track, and you know this as a former ambassador, the Chinese couldn't compete with us in 100 years if we got our act together in this country and we got back to doing the right things in this country, at which point we could afford to buy houses, which would solve virtually everything else.",
"You have got to be able to afford it to be able buy it, and that is where things went wrong in the last decade.",
"BACHMANN: I'm sorry, Charlie.",
"[crosstalk]",
"BACHMANN: Well, I do. I grew up in a middle-class home. We went to below...",
"BACHMANN: We went to below poverty when my parents divorced. And my mother worked very hard. We all did. We all got jobs. And we were able to work our way through college. And -- and eventually my husband and I started a business.",
"We have broken hearts for at-risk kids, Charlie. That's why we took 23 foster children into our home. I believe the best solutions are the ones closest to home. If we reach out as individuals to help people and have broken hearts for people and care for them on a personal basis, then we don't need big government to step in and do that job. The more that we can do to love people, the better off this...",
