"Bauer: Hi, Karen. How are you?",
"Bauer: Karen, there are a lot of things we can do. I'm in favor of medical savings accounts so that in good years people can put a little bit of money aside that they can take off of their taxes and then if there's a medical crisis the next year they can use it for that or for health insurance costs.",
"I think we can do things on the whole area of the Patient Bill of Rights.",
"I think a lot of people in my party got off on the wrong foot on this. My 76 year-old mother has to deal with an HMO. Why in the world would somebody think it's a conservative idea or a Republican idea to say that she shouldn't have the right to get redress if she's the victim of a medical malpractice.",
"I think we need to do something on long-term care and on prescription drugs. And what I would do is let older Americans buy into the really nice health care plan that politicians in Washington, D.C., have. They've got a great plan that covers them and federal employees. They get to pick among 200 policies that cover things like long-term care and prescription drugs. We can let older Americans buy into that plan and end up saving tens of billions of dollars in Medicare while providing better coverage for more Americans.",
"So, those are some of the things we can do.",
"Bauer: Yes.",
"Bauer: Well, Karen, there are people in a lot of different age groups. But the overwhelming majority of people in long-term care are older Americans. And so my plan of allowing them to buy into the federal health insurance program, which provides long-term care, would work.",
"Let me mention another area of long-term care, and that's veterans' benefits. Many Americans are treated in those veterans hospitals, and I have to tell you, I think it's outrageous that we are closing veterans hospitals.",
"My father was in a veterans hospital for two years. My mother was able to visit him there because it was close to home. These men kept their end of the bargain. And now we're making them stand in line, hat in hand, to beg for the benefits that are theirs. When I am president of the United States, these men and women are going to be taken care of.",
"Bauer: Winston Churchill referred to us as the American race. Very interesting phrase. It obviously wasn't a reference to the color of our skins. He knew that there was an idea that defined Americans, and it's in the Declaration of Independence: All men created equal, et cetera.",
"But I want to add, one of the reasons for the trends you're talking about, and I don't have any problem with the trends, but one of the reasons for them I do have a problem with, and that's illegal immigration. In Governor Bush's state, in Southern California, illegal immigrants are pouring into this country and my party ought to stand against it. A great nation protects its borders.",
"Bauer: Yes, Senator.",
"Bauer: Senator, your summary doesn't even get close to how bad the situation is. I mean, as you know, in the last election, we had Chinese money coming in through companies controlled by the Peoples Liberation Army, into the American presidential campaign. Unbelievable and unacceptable.",
"I think there are a couple of things that can be done here. My own approach on this is that individuals should be able to give more to candidates like us than they can right now. I think $1,000 is too little. I hope none of us can be bought for $1,000. I know that I can't.",
"I think as long as we get that money reported immediately that that would be an acceptable change. But I agree with you on a major point. There is something terribly wrong when big unions and big corporations can dump $4 million, $5 million, $6 million into the coffers of the two political parties.",
"Now, reform is important. I want to make sure it doesn't hurt just our party. That's not acceptable. But when Teddy Roosevelt and the early reformers said that big unions and big business should not be able to buy that kind of access, they knew what they were talking about. And as president, I would do away with that kind of soft money in campaigns.",
"Bauer: I agree and, John, let me tell you a very real way where this money is hurting our party. We — and I must say this to some of colleagues up here tonight — there is a lot of fuzzy, soft thinking about China. Some of these debates from some of you, I thought I was debating Bill Clinton.",
"And why is that? Why is the party of Ronald Reagan confused about most-favored-nation status? Very simply reason: Because there are some big corporations giving a lot of money to the Republican National Committee and pulling strings on that issue.",
"Steve Forbes, you can't figure out where you are on most favored-nation-status for China.",
"Bauer: One week you say one thing and one week you say something...",
"Bauer: ... else. Governor Bush, you agree...",
"Use your own time. Use your own time.",
"Bauer: Governor Bush, you've got a policy on China that looks just like Bill Clinton's when it comes to most-favored-nation status. So I think you guys are already affected by some of these big money contributions.",
"Bauer: OK.",
"Well, Steve, we can continue this conversation about China. Steve, you've had about four different positions on this during this campaign. I still don't know quite where you are.",
"Let me summarize for you what's been happening with China. They're in the middle of a massive arms buildup. They've taken technology from the United States, sold to them by American companies. We've got companies from China controlled by the People's Liberation Army pouring stuff in here. We've got threats on Taiwan. This Chinese defense minister said two weeks ago: War with the United States was inevitable.",
"Will you repeal most-favored-nation status for China? I will in my first week in office.",
"Bauer: Steve, you know, you've done it again. You had over a minute and 15 seconds. You can't answer a simple question...",
"Bauer: Let me finish my follow-up.",
"Bauer: All of the things that you just said hypothetically has already been done by China. You refuse to answer a simple question: Will you repeal most-favored-nation status for China or not?",
"Bauer: You're ignoring 10 years of history. The verdict's already in, Steve.",
"Bauer: Well, the facts of the matter are that in rural areas of America and in the inner city, kids are being left behind when it comes to the Internet. Once again we're leaving some of our children back instead of making sure they can take part in all the advances that I think are down the road.",
"The marketplace is great, but it doesn't always work perfectly. And as president, I would be willing to use the bully pulpit of my office in order to try to make sure that access was there. Also tax incentives for companies, I think that's a fair thing to do. While we're running a surplus, it seems to me these are some useful ways to use a little bit of that money.",
"Bauer: Well, Bernie, I don't know, but I have to tell you I would rather not answer process questions. You know we can have those debates in college universities and TV talk shows, I guess. But you know I don't think Americans are sitting around worried about the process of electing a president. I think they're worried about real problems that are effecting real families.",
"You know, the Second Amendment is under attack in courts all over this country. The fact that today 4,000 unborn children lost their lives because of abortion on demand. The schools not working. Babies being found in trash cans.",
"Those are the issues, Bernie, that I think voters in this state and around the country are focused on instead of the process of, gee, are we electing the president right? Should it be a primary or a caucus?",
"I think people want this campaign to be about them, about their families, their jobs, and their futures, and that's what I want to spend my time dealing with in this debate.",
"Bauer: There you go again, Bernie. Look, you know, process questions may be great for Inside Politics when you've got about 10 minutes and you've got a few seconds with a candidate. You think that a worker here in New Hampshire that's not making enough money to get health insurance, or a mother here who sends her child off to school worried about whether there's going to be a school shooting, or a law-abiding citizen of this state that sees these liberal judges trying to change the law so that men can marry men and women can marry women, do you think they're worried about whether Gary Bauer is going to drop out, stay in or whatever?",
"This campaign shouldn't be about questions like that, it ought to be about the real concerns of these voters in this state.",
"Bauer: Bernie, lying under oath is a felony. That's absolutely right. The president I worked for, for eight years, Ronald Reagan, talked to me several times about what the Oval Office meant to him, that he would not go into that room without his coat and tie on. Presidents have sat there in that office and have made decisions that resulted in our sons going off to foreign battlefields.",
"This president sat in that office and we know what he did. In fact, he was on the phone with a member of Congress, talking about sending our sons to Bosnia, while he was in the middle of a disgusting act with a White House intern. This brings shame to our country.",
"Bauer: Steve, this administration has been tougher on Israel than it has been on China. You know, it looks the other way every time the Chinese have another affront against us. It gives them Most Favored Nation status, as you want to give them Most Favored Nation status. It continues to make deals with China, as you want to make deals with China.",
"But to specifically address your question, I think it's outrageous that our ally, Israel, has been getting the back of the hand from this administration. You've got this little democratic country in the middle of the Mid-East, surrounded by adversaries, with much more land. And what are we doing, and the rest of the world expecting, that little Israel has to sacrifice more land for peace and security?",
"If somebody told us that Governor Bush had to sacrifice a little bit of Texas for peace and security, we'd tell them where to go. I will stand with Israel as president of the United States, and I will not waste billions of dollars of the taxpayers' money to try to make up for mistakes that this administration is making in the Middle East.",
"Bauer: Steve, I — of course I will. But I just think you've got blinders on. You know the threat to America is not Syria. I will be very tough on Syria about their transfer of weapons, of supporting terrorists, but I'll do that to China, too.",
"You know that's the big challenge for America. I'm going to be tough in American foreign policy, not just against Syria but also against the Chinese and Beijing.",
"Bauer: Alan, a couple of weeks ago, you criticized my good friend John McCain because he expressed some support of or interest in a controversial music group. In view of that I was a little surprised this week to see you fall in to a mosh pit while a band called \"The Machine Rages On,\" or \"Rage Against the Machine\" played. That band is anti-family. It's pro-cop killer, and it's pro-terrorist.",
"It's the kind of music that the killers at Columbine High School were immersed in.",
"Bauer: I don't know, don't you think you owe an apology to parents and policemen on that one?",
"Keyes: Actually I don't, because I was in no — accusing me of having some complicity in that music would be accusing me of, I don't know, being responsible for the color of my skin.",
"When you can't control things, Gary, you're not morally responsible for them. And I was not morally responsible for the music that was playing as I stepped out of my rally and faced Michael Moore, whatever his name was, doing whatever he was doing. That's his concern, not mine. And until you told me this fact I had no idea what that music was. Contrary to our friend John McCain, who expressed the view that this was his favorite rock group. I think telling somebody that it's your favorite thus and such is actually taking responsible for the choice and making it clear to folks that this is something that you prefer and that this is something that you care about and so forth and so on.",
"To do it in a lighthearted way, rather than having it imposed on you by circumstances of which — over which you have no control is something that I think is totally unacceptable. So I think that I would beg to differ with you. I had nothing to do with that music, disclaim any knowledge of it.",
"Admittedly, I was willing to fall into the mosh pit, but I'll tell you something. You know why I did that? Because I think that exemplifies the kind of trust in people that is the heart and soul of the Keyes campaign. It's about time we got back to the understanding that we trust the people of this country to do what's decent. And when you trust them, they will in fact hold you up, whether it's in terms of giving help to you when you're falling down or caring for their own children.",
"So I thought that, as an emblem of that trust, it was the right thing to do. And anyway, my daughter thought it was a good idea.",
"Bauer: Well, daughters are extremely important.",
"Al, let me read a quote from you. You said that one of the most important things is the dignity of the presidency. In fact, you said that it's important that those of us that aspire to be president not act like guests on \"The Jerry Springer Show,\" which is incompatible with the dignity of politics.",
"Now, I'll concede from your answer you didn't know about the music. But nobody made you jump in the mosh pit. Do you think that's consistent with...",
"Keyes: Oh, that's very true.",
"Bauer: ... do you think that's consistent with the dignity of the presidency?",
"And I think that — you know the real test of dignity, the real test of dignity is how you carry it through hard times. I think I learned that from my people. We went through slavery when we didn't have the outward signs of what others would call dignity. Because we understood that dignity comes from within, and that whatever circumstance you are going through, you can carry that dignity with you and no one can take it away.",
"So, I think you may have a misunderstanding of dignity. It doesn't come from what you do in a mosh pit. It comes from what you do as a result of the convictions of your heart. And I'll leave it to the American people to judge the convictions of my heart.",
"Bauer: I don't think it's fair. In fact, I think we should stop relying on polls period, whether it's to pick who's a serious presidential candidate, or what's even worse, to decide what policies we ought to be pursuing in Washington, D.C.",
"This process ought to be as open as possible. The American people deserve that. And they certainly deserve not to have elites, whether it's some organization of pollster somewhere, deciding who they're going to get a chance to hear from and who they're not going to have a chance to hear from.",
"Bauer: Yes.",
"Bauer: Right. Karen, I'm going to do as president whatever I have to do to end abortion on demand. This is the premier moral issue of our time. If we don't get this right, we're not going to get anything right.",
"We are destroying one-and-a-half million children a year. We've been doing that for 27 years. America is better than this.",
"It's interesting that you would call it a litmus test. That's the word liberals use to cower conservatives into doing what they ought not to do. A litmus test is just another word for a deeply held principle. This is a deeply held principle for me. I've got a 20-year record on it.",
"I'm going to appoint pro-life judges and pro-life people to everyplace in my administration, because I'm going to want the people in my administration to agree with me.",
"And I would just add that Governor Bush said this week that he thought Roe v. Wade was — quote-unquote — \"a reach.\"",
"Governor, a reach? One-and-a-half million children a year. It's a darn sight more than a reach. It's a national tragedy.",
"My judges will be pro-life and abortion on demand will be over in my administration.",
"Bauer: You know, Karen, I'll answer the question, but I want to be sure...",
"Bauer: I want to be sure that you give the governor 30 seconds to respond to my attack on him, as we've seen several times here tonight.",
"The governor is a fine man, but I'm going to make sure that my running mate agrees with me on the issues. And I've asked the governor in four straight debates whether he will agree to appoint pro-life judges if he gets the nomination.",
"And four times in a row, Governor, you won't answer the question.",
"Bauer: OK.",
"Bauer: I'm glad that you're honest about it.",
"Bauer: I do remember it. I was with him.",
"Bauer: There's a big difference. There's a big difference. There's a big difference, Governor, and here's the difference. We've been promising, as Republicans, for 20 years that we would do something about this. And instead of keeping our promise, we've put judges like David Souter on the court. Seven of the current nine judges were appointed by my party.",
"Abortion ought to be over. We have not been serious about it. That's why I'm pressing you so hard on it.",
"Bauer: I'm the son of a janitor, and I know what it's like to live in a house where the paycheck lasts until Thursday but the bills last until Friday. I'm not going to forget average Americans.",
"I've had eight years of experience at the highest levels of government with Ronald Reagan. I know how the city works. I know how to get things done. I know what Reagan's values were and I want to finish his unfinished work.",
"Finally, I'm going to defend your values.",
"I will stop abortion on demand. I will protect the Second Amendment. We're going to stop illegal immigration.",
"With your vote, I can help America, together with you, become a shinning city upon a hill again.",
"God bless you and thank you very much."
