"Bauer: This is a very basic question. If my daughter or somebody that I loved was raped, that would be the most horrible thing I could possibly imagine. But I would comfort her. I would pray with her. I would explain to her that she couldn't make right the terrible thing that had happened to her by taking the life of her innocent unborn child. [applause and cheers]",
"But the most important thing, sir, is not what I would do under those circumstances but what I would do as president. And as president I would throw rapists in jail for a long time so America's women wouldn't have to worry about it. [applause]",
"Bauer: Steve, Steve, you are absolutely right. Let me just say to the good people in this audience, you have watched for 10 years while the Democratic Party has attempted to smear our party with charges of racism, with charges of not caring about the poor, with all sorts of scare tactics — that we don't care about the weak and the sick and the handicapped. They do it time and time and time again. And all too often our party in the face of that has run for the tall grass. It is time for us to stand up. We are a party of great principles. Al Gore's campaign manager ought to be ashamed of herself, and she ought to resign tonight. [applause]",
"Bauer: Oh, you mean the same question?",
"Bauer: I would agree. I think that the idea behind affirmative action was legitimate and decent, that when you start counting by race you divide America, you don't bring it together.",
"Bauer: Yes, I do agree with it. I not only agree with that — I think the gambling industry is corrupting our culture, corrupting our families, and will eventually corrupt politics with the unregulated money. [applause]",
"Bauer: I will enforce the antitrust laws of this country. If we ever wake up and our food supply is controlled by a handful of companies and the family farm is dead, we will regret that for the rest of our history.",
"Free trade is fine, but we don't have free trade. For 10 years in a row we have given China most-favored-nation status, and in exchange they have stuck their finger in our eye. They buy less of our farm products now than they did in the past. Governor Bush and many others up here would give China most-favored-nation status again. I will not. I will withdraw it the first week in office. [applause and cheers]",
"Bauer: I just — before I answer the question, I'd like to get a pledge from you that if you're involved in a Democratic debate, to be sure to ask Al Gore this question. [applause and laughter]",
"Bauer: My background is Southern Baptist. My wife and I are in a non-denominational church right now. We take very seriously the biblical call to tithe. We give about 10 percent of our income every year. And my flat-tax plan, by the way, continues to allow charitable contributions to be tax-deductible, unlike Mr. Forbes, which I think is a very important thing for us to do.",
"Bauer: Yes. Thank you very much. Governor Bush, this is the fourth time in a row that I've drawn your name to ask the first question to. I think the odds are 10,000 to one. I think I'm going to keep drawing your name until you actually answer the question. [laughter]",
"Bauer: Governor, just a few weeks ago, we transferred the Panama Canal back to Panama. Bill Clinton sent Jimmy Carter there to do it. I believe our national security is at stake in Panama. We've got a growing Chinese influence there. They've got the land on both ends of the canal. If I'm president, I'm going to look at how I can reassert American military forces there. Are you willing to take the steps necessary, including putting our military back in Panama, in order to stop the Chinese from taking over influence there?",
"Bauer: Okay.",
"Bauer: Do you see a threat from China in the canal, sir?",
"Bauer: Well, I just want to point out to you, ma'am, that if you asked the president of the United States that question, it would be an essay answer. [cheers] I'm not going to tell you the greatest personal mistake I've ever made, because it is personal, but I'll tell you the biggest political mistake I ever made.",
"I made a presentation to the president of the United States, Ronald Reagan, in the Cabinet Room, and I made the mistake of citing to him a poll. And his face turned blood-red and he pointed his finger at me and he said, \"Gary, don't cite polls. Tell me the best thing to do for America.\" I've never forgotten those words, and those words will carry us back into the White House. [applause]",
"Bauer: You know, I think what we've done for over 30 years with unelected liberal judges is favor the criminal over the victim. [applause] Now, we all want to observe the Constitution and to follow its provisions. But when the penalty for a policeman's mistake is to put a criminal back out on the street then we are hurting America, we are hurting our law-abiding citizens.",
"When I am president of the United States, my judges will be traditional conservative judges. They will favor the citizen, not the criminal, they will be pro-life, they will stop remaking America in the image of American liberalism and start remaking it in the image of American conservatism. [applause]",
"Bauer: Yes, I support keeping the Internet tax-free. But I am not going to be cavalier about what small mom and pop operations on Main Street are facing. They already get the short end of the stick. They're overtaxed, they're overregulated. So while I'll keep the Internet tax-free, as president I will fight to lower taxes on those small mom and pop stores, all over the country. If Main Street dies in America, a part of America will die that we need to keep.",
"Bauer: I worked for Ronald Reagan for eight years. I was his Undersecretary of Education and his Domestic Policy Advisor at the White House. My biggest concern is that our party might forget what he taught us about how to be the governing party of the United States.",
"We have to offer a clear, bold alternative. I will do that. My judges will be pro-life. I will get rid of the education bureaucracy and give vouchers and tuition tax credits to parents. I will make sure that taxes are lower. I will follow a Reagan policy toward China. And to every veteran here tonight and watching on TV, in one year, if I'm elected, you will have a commander-in-chief you can respect again."
