"Bauer: You said you first name was Ellen?",
"Q: Emily.",
"Bauer: Emily, I'm sorry. It's very difficult to hear with the defense speech going on there.",
"Emily, it's an extremely important question. And I think it's an educational question. Many of you may know that I was undersecretary of education under Ronald Reagan, and was in charge of a $17 billion budget, and had about 17,000 bureaucrats working for me. And I have to tell you it was an incredibly eye-opening experience.",
"Those bureaucrats were good people, but I spent about 90 percent of every day saying no to just really bad ideas.",
"We've got a real disparity in American education right now. Many of the suburbs have a lot of resources that they can use and they can get better results. But in the inner cities we've got schools that just aren't working.",
"I believe one of the things we can do to solve that is to provide educational choice for those parents. If we can give low-income parents vouchers, then they can go to that local principal and say: You're not teaching our children the math and they science that they're going to need to be competitive in this world.",
"I believe that's a basic reform and we've got to do it. I think it'll make real progress on this issue so we don't have another whole generation left behind on the most important advances that the country's experiencing.",
"Bauer: Well, it's a great question. I really agree with you on this. I have to tell you I was very troubled when the leadership of my party in the Congress got themselves into the box of taking the position that average Americans shouldn't have the right to sue and HMO if it provided inappropriate medical treatment.",
"Now, I'm against big bureaucracy in Washington making health care decisions. I just have an aversion to bureaucrats. But it's not just government bureaucrats. I don't like HMO bureaucrats and insurance company bureaucrats either. And I think we need to level the playing field.",
"My mother is 76-years-old and she lives back in Newport, Kentucky. She's already had one heart attack. And so I call her everyday to check on her.",
"And I can tell you one of her great frustrations is dealing with the American health care system.",
"She doesn't feel like she has any real leverage. She's confused by all the paperwork.",
"We need to make real reforms: medical savings accounts, allowing deductibility for insurance payments. Big companies can do that now; individuals can't.",
"There are many things that we can do and we need to do them now before we have a system where bureaucracy is making all of the decisions in health care: accountants making decisions instead of doctors.",
"I'll be unveiling a health care plan soon that will reflect those principles. I think that it will be a big step forward and I hope my party will get on the right side of being with the average American instead of with the big HMOs.",
"Bauer: Well, I believe that our immigration policy is a mess. And I think back at my time in Newport, Kentucky, when I was growing up. It was a tough blue-collar town. And I remember in elementary school, we would all stand in line to get milk. And then the school bully would come along and get in the front of the line, and nobody could do anything about it because he was bigger than anybody else.",
"Well, we have millions of people around the world that are standing in line to get into the United States. They see it as that shining city on a hill that the founding fathers talked about and that Ronald Reagan reminded us of all the time.",
"They're playing by the rules. They're abiding by the law. And we allow countless people to butt into the front of the line, to pour across our borders and have as their first act as entering our country the violation of our laws.",
"We must secure our border. A great nation should not have borders that are unsecured. And I believe if we do that, then we can make a judgment as a people what the appropriate legal immigration levels ought to be.",
"I would mention another important item here that I think will help solve the immigration debate, and that is this idea that everybody coming into the country should want to become an American. They should want to learn the English language. They should want to know our traditions. We need to make a new effort as a nation to teach everyone, native-born and immigrant, the great values of America and our founding principle in the Declaration of Independence: All men are created equal, endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights, among these the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.",
"Bauer: Judy, I think you need to be honest with us. That questioner that couldn't be here tonight, that wasn't Governor Bush that asked this question? [laughter]",
"Because that would not be fair.",
"Bauer: Well, this is a very, very important -- very important question. There are two of us here tonight that have put flat-tax proposals on the table. And I think as always, the devil is in the details.",
"If you're going to have a flat tax, what you describe as income become all-important. And how you see America's wealth being created is all-important.",
"I grew up in a home where my father was a janitor. I'm used to having bills last till Friday when the paycheck only lasted until Thursday. And so my flat-tax proposal recognizes that the real wealth of America is in our families. I have a 16-percent across-the-board rate. You would be able to keep your mortgage deduction and your charitable deduction, and everyone would pay the 16 percent -- the waitress and the corporation.",
"Now, Steve has a plan that he'll elaborate on, but Steve has a major new write-off in his plan for big business. He allows the big corporations to write off the entire cost of their investments in the year that they make them.",
"That means that a lot of corporations will pay zero while you're paying 25 percent between the income tax and the payroll tax.",
"I also have a 20 percent payroll tax cut. So my plan is fairer for families. It's across the board. And I think it's the way the Republican Party has to go if we want to win the White House back.",
"Bauer: Well, the higher education -- did that hit a nerve here? [applause]",
"The higher education programs are extremely important. I'm a conservative and I want the federal role in education to be much less than it is now, because I think local and state communities will do much better running schools. But I'm not going to be a hypocrite about it. I used loans and grants to get through college myself and law school, and where I grew up people wouldn't have been able to go to school if it weren't for those loans and grants.",
"But I think there has to be a basic honesty here about this.",
"If we put out a loan program and tell the American taxpayer it is a loan program, then when students borrow that money they have to be held responsible for paying it back.",
"And quite frankly, I think to the extent that students are driven by that to a work ethic, needing to balance the things that we always have to balance in life -- I had to do that when I was in school -- I think it's actually part of the educational process.",
"Getting a higher education in America is a ticket to great things later. And I think everybody that does it has to be willing to make some sacrifices.",
"It would be easy for me in this audience to say, you know what, I want to turn all those loans to grants and everything will be OK. But you've had politicians doing that to you for the last 30 years. In fact, I heard two guys last night spend the surplus over five different times. [laughter]",
"And so I'm not going to lie to you. I think a mixture of loans and grants are the appropriate way to go. We need to keep the interest rate low on those loans. But I think most students will find that package to be a good package.",
"Bauer: America is a great nation militarily, it's a great nation with wealth, but it also has a terrible virtue deficit. If we're going to be a shining city on a hill, the way the founders wanted us to be, we need to put our families back together, we need to make sure that every child has an adult that's crazy about him and we need to balance virtue and liberty.",
"And that's what my presidency will be dedicated to. Thank you."
