"BIDEN: Tim, we're begging the question here. Everyone says there's no political -- there's no military solution, only a political solution. We offered a political solution today, and it got 75 votes. And it said -- it rejected fundamentally the president's position that there's a possibility of establishing a strong central government in Iraq and said we're going to have a federal system, bring in the rest of the world to support establishing a federal system. That will end the civil war. That will allow us to bring our troops home. That is the thing that will allow us to come home without leaving chaos behind.",
"Now, here's the deal. The deal is that to say that you are going to bring all troops home from the region -- I assume that's what you mean --",
"BIDEN: Just from Iraq. You're going to bring all troops home from Iraq. If in fact there is no political solution by the time I am president, then I would bring them out because all they are is fodder.",
"But -- but -- if you go along with the Biden plan that got 75 votes today and you have a stable Iraq like we have in Bosnia -- we've had 20,000 Western troops in Bosnia for 10 years. Not one has been killed -- not one. The genocide has ended. So it would depend on the circumstances when I became president.",
"BIDEN: I would make a commitment to have them all out if there is not a political reconciliation, because they're just fodder.",
"BIDEN: Tim, can I make a clarification, please?",
"BIDEN: What we voted on was not partition. I don't want anybody thinking it was partition. And it's the only time we got 26 Republicans to reject the president's --",
"(Cross talk.)",
"BIDEN: No, it's not.",
"BIDEN: The reason that cities ignore the federal law is the fact that there is no funding at the federal level to provide for the kind of enforcement at the federal level you need.",
"Pick up The New York Times today. There's a city not far across the river from my state that imposed similar sanctions. And what they found out is, as a consequence of that, their city went in the dumps -- in the dumpster; stores started closing, everything started to happen, and they changed the policy.",
"Part of the problem is you have to have a federal government that can enforce laws. This administration's been fundamentally derelict in not funding any of the requirements that are needed even to enforce the existing law.",
"And the last point I'll make is Rudy Giuliani doesn't know what the heck he's talking about. He's the most uninformed person on American foreign policy now running for president -- (cheers, applause) -- number one.",
"And number two, these guys -- these -- anyway. (Laughter.) MS. KING: But yes or no.",
"BIDEN: I wish I'd get to talk about something I know about like foreign policy. You gotta count me in in this debate a little bit.",
"BIDEN: No.",
"And I'd like to hear from Senator Dodd. New Haven, Connecticut is on that list of sanctuary cities.",
"BIDEN: No, what is means is that in order to get health care, you're going to have to be able to persuade at least 15 percent of the Republicans to vote for it.",
"BIDEN: I think it's going to be more difficult -- unfairly, but I think it's more difficult for Hillary. Hillary, because she has battled the special interests, and she has, but look at the special interests. The special interests, with regard to Hillary, they feed on this, you know, this Clinton-Bush thing.",
"It's not Hillary's fault. But the fact of the matter is, it's much more difficult to go out and convince a group of Republicans, I would argue, getting something done that is of a major consequence.",
"I have experience doing that. I did it on the crime bill, I did it on -- today, the first time we rejected -- fundamentally rejected the president's policy. And I'm not suggesting it's Hillary's fault. I think it's a reality that it's more difficult, because there's a lot of very good things that come with all the great things that President Clinton did. But there's also a lot of the old stuff that comes back. It's kind of hard. When I say \"old stuff,\" I'm referring to policy -- policy.",
"BIDEN: The answer is yes. I'm probably the only one up here who's going to say that. But the truth of the matter is, you've stated it. You're either going to cut benefits or you're going to go ahead and raise taxes above the first $97,000.",
"And by the way, I was in that room with Pat Moynihan. It was Joe Biden, Pat Moynihan, Bob Dole -- it was also George Mitchell -- when we made that deal. I'll never forget Bob Dole turning to Pat Moynihan and saying, we all got to jump in this boat at the same time.",
"So the bottom line here is, you can't do it by growing the economy alone. So I would raise the cap.",
"BIDEN: Well, we did that once, I supported that. That's what got it solvent to 2041. By simply going and taking -- raising the cap, you can solve the problem.",
"BIDEN: No, no, I'm with you.",
"BIDEN: Thanks for invoking my name.",
"BIDEN: I would ban -- yes. I would ban -- and all publicly, nationally. And one other point I want to make on this --",
"BIDEN: Absolutely no, I would not. You've got to calculate the cost here. The cost of alcoholism in America, the cost of accidents that flow from drunkenness, are astronomical. There are 300,000 babies born deformed every year in this country because of women who are alcoholics while they're carrying those children to term.",
"Ladies and gentlemen, this is a gigantic problem, just like the drug issue. And the idea that we're going to suggest that it makes good sense to move the age down to 18 I find to be counterproductive. I would not do that.",
"And the last point I'll make is, presidents are supposed to lead. How do you go out and negotiate, use health care and the Social Security system as a negotiating tool to deal with the federal deficit? You're supposed to lead. You lay out what you want to do. You're not negotiating with yourself, you're negotiating to protect the system. And you can't use the system as a negotiating tool to get to a balanced budget any more than you can turn around and suggest that somehow lowering the drinking age to 18 is going to make anything better in America. Anything.",
"KING: I'd like to hear from a few more of you on this, if you could keep it to 30 seconds. Senator Dodd.",
"BIDEN: I don't think they've changed politics.",
"BIDEN: Well, the -- on some things, yes. I mean, look, you can -- I don't think you can castigate them for the ad, I think. But the idea that I was initially told -- I'm going to get in trouble for this, but -- that the quote, \"It's their party\" -- they're part of the party. It's not their party.",
"BIDEN: No, I would not. And I met, up here in New Hampshire, with 17 three- and four-star generals who, after my making a speech at Drake Law School, pointing out I would not under any circumstances sanction torture, I thought they were about to read me the riot act.",
"BIDEN: Seventeen of our four-star, three-star generals said,",
"Biden, will you make a commitment you will never use torture? It does not work. It is part of the reason why we got the faulty information on Iraq in the first place is because it was engaged in by one person who gave whatever answer they thought they were going to give in order to stop being tortured. It doesn't work. It should be no part of our policy ever -- ever.",
"BIDEN: Question, Tim, did you say pardon, as well?",
"I'd pardon the son of a gun, if I got an atom bomb.",
"RUSSERT: That was -- that was the scenario that President Clinton laid out.",
"BIDEN: OK. Well, I would pardon -- I would not torture, but if I thought I'd get the hydrogen bomb this guy had planted, I'd say, Man, you're out. And then I'd figure out how he got taken care of later. But I would...",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"... I would pardon him.",
"BIDEN: I'd pardon him, not torture. Not torture.",
"BIDEN: Oh, did the torture. No, no, no.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"Real fast -- 30 seconds.",
"BIDEN: I thought you meant pardon the...",
"BIDEN: Christ's warning of the Pharisees. There are many Pharisees, and it's part of what has bankrupted some people's view about religion. And I worry about the Pharisees.",
"I want to ask Allison King for one more question. This, after all, is New Hampshire. She wants to ask you about baseball.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"KING: For many here, in New England, the answer to this next question may be the most important one you answer tonight.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"Red Sox or Yankees?",
"Governor Richardson?",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"BIDEN: I was raised in Scranton, Pennsylvania, by a grandfather, if you weren't a Yankees fan you didn't eat. Yankees.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"RUSSERT: Thank you all.",
"Thank you voters of New Hampshire and all across the country for watching the Democratic candidates tonight.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"And thank you, Dartmouth.",
"Our thanks to New England Cable News, Dartmouth College. The broadcast re-airs tonight, 1 a.m. Eastern on MSNBC. If you want to see the Republican candidates in a similar setting, NBC will bring you the debate from Dearborn, Michigan, October 9th. I'll see you this Sunday on Meet the Press.",
"From Hanover, New Hampshire, good night."