"BIDEN: With all due respect with anybody who thinks that pressure brought this about, let's get this straight. In 2003, they stopped their program.",
"You cannot trust this president. He is not trustworthy. He has undermined our security in the region. He has undermined our credibility in the world. He has made it more difficult to get cooperation from the rest of the world.",
"He has caused oil to go up roughly $25 a barrel, with a security premium, because of his threat of war.",
"It is outrageous, intolerable, and it must stop. The president of the United States -- it was like watching a rerun of his statements on Iraq five years earlier.",
"This -- Iran is not a nuclear threat to the United States of America. Iran should be dealt with directly with the rest of the world at our side. But we've made it more difficult now because who is going to trust us?",
"Who in Europe, who in China, who in Russia?",
"BIDEN: It's outrageous.",
"BIDEN: No, I wanted to talk about this issue. As chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, I'm the only one at this table -- for the last four years, I've been laying out concrete alternatives to the Bush administration's policy.",
"The vote -- what everybody misunderstands, in my humble opinion, is the vote to declare the Quds Force and the Revolutionary Guard a terrorist organization was not a view that could be established without question, number one.",
"Number two, it is self-defeating. The moment that declaration was made, oil prices jumped over $18 a barrel. The moment that declaration was made, every one of our friends, from Iraq to Pakistan, felt they had to distance themselves from us because it appears to be a war on Islam.",
"BIDEN: With all due respect to my colleagues, with the exception of Senator Dodd, they're not connecting the dots here. This matters and there's no evidence -- none, zero...",
"BIDEN: ... that this declaration caused any change in action on the part of the Iranian government.",
"BIDEN: By the way, terminology matters. I'm a great admirer of Senator Clinton. It's not about not advocating a rush to war. I'm advocating no war. A rush to war means that war, taken slowly, going slowly, is possible. I'm advocating no war, no justification for war.",
"Number two.",
"BIDEN: The reason why -- the reason why we are disliked so much is because we are trusted so little. The reason why we are disliked so much, obviously -- I'm not talking about Al Qaida, I'm talking about the 1.2 billion Muslims in the world who look at us, and when we say and do things as we're talking about now with Iran, conclude that this is a war on Islam.",
"BIDEN: I'll make one point. When we went into Afghanistan, the word was the Arab street would rise up. We did it the right way. The Arab street knew that Arabs -- the Muslims in Al Qaida were bad guys, they supported us.",
"When we do things that don't sound rational to them, it undercuts our legitimacy, we have no legitimacy.",
"When we do things that policymakers in Washington may think are rational, like very strong support of Israel, that also upsets a lot of those 1 billion Muslims you've described.",
"How would you, Senator Edwards, how would you as president, Senator Edwards, answer the complaint that the U.S., in its support of Israel, is so pro-Israeli it can't be an evenhanded, honest broker of matters and is anti-Muslim?",
"BIDEN: Clarity. Prevention, not preemption. An absolute repudiation of this president's doctrine which has only three legs on the stool. One, push the mute button, don't talk to anybody. Two, preemption. And three, regime change.",
"I would reject all three. We need a doctrine of prevention. The role of a great power is to prevent the crises.",
"And we don't have to imagine any of the crises. We know what's going to happen on day one when you're president. You have Pakistan, Russia, China, the subcontinent of India. You have Afghanistan. You have Darfur.",
"And it requires engagement, engagement and prevention. That does not rule out the use of force. It incorporates the notion of prevention. Prevention.",
"BIDEN: Well...",
"And given the WTO guidelines, could you actually do that?",
"BIDEN: With the WTO guidelines, we could stop these products coming in now. This president doesn't act. We have much more leverage on China than they have on us.",
"Let's get something straight here. We're making them into 10 feet tall. It took them 30 years to get 20 percent of their population out of poverty. They've got 800 million people in poverty. They're in real distress.",
"The idea that a country with 800 million people in poverty has greater leverage over us is preposterous.",
"What it is, is we've yielded to corporate America. We've yielded to this president's notion of what constitutes trade. And we've refused to enforce the laws that exist.",
"As president, I would end, flat, bang, no importation of those toys. Why? Under WTO, you're allowed to do it until you send inspectors to guarantee.",
"BIDEN: Why aren't they doing it? Corporate America...",
"BIDEN: No, I'm not willing to go there. You don't need to start a tariff war. All you have to do is enforce the law, enforce the law.",
"Senator Dodd?",
"BIDEN: Exactly right.",
"BIDEN: You can't ensure it. But, look, this is all about playing by the rules. I have been pushing, as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, for the last seven years -- or of the ranking member during that period -- that we hold China accountable at the United Nations.",
"We won't even, at the United Nations -- we won't even designate China as a violator of human rights.",
"Now, what's the deal there? We're talking about competition. That's the -- in terms of trade. It's capitulation, not competition.",
"Name me another country in the world that we would allow to conduct themselves the way this country has, China, and not call them to -- on the carpet at the U.N.",
"Name me another country in the world who would use the trade practices they use with us that we would not call them on the carpet.",
"BIDEN: Absolutely.",
"BIDEN: And the reason I would is that it's the one way to get China to reform. You can't close your eyes. You can't pretend. It is self-defeating. It's a Hobson's choice we're giving people here.",
"Senator Clinton, what kind of commitment should we try to exact from China?",
"BIDEN: Look, first of all, I don't buy this being -- why you're being so tough on China. Would we do any of these things with regard to France or Germany or England, our friends, our allies? The answer is: We would.",
"BIDEN: No, I think it is not.",
"Look, if France was acting like China is acting, we'd be tough with them. If England was doing what China is doing we'd be tough with them. This is about being fair.",
"And by the way, to deal with the currency, back in '88, we had the same deal. And what happened, we had a thing called the Plaza Accords. We brought in all of the major currencies in the world to sit down and say we've got to rationalize the currency here.",
"Us doing it by ourselves is the ultimate blunt instrument.",
"We may be able to do that. But were I president, I'd be calling a similar conference, bringing in the rest of the world to rationalize our currencies here.",
"So would we believe that -- should we believe that the relationship, the U.S. relationship with China, under a Hillary Clinton administration, would be less one of cooperation and engagement and one more akin to confrontation?",
"BIDEN: I'd like to make a distinction here. And I agree with Hillary on this. What Amy, as I understood the question, is doing is providing a service there to children.",
"There's 1.8 million children here.",
"BIDEN: Well, I just assumed she was talking about children. There's a distinction, quite frankly, between providing a service and providing for you being able to make money by hiring someone you can hire cheaply in order to be able to make your business grow. I find a moral distinction there, number one.",
"Number two, as a single parent for five years, after my wife and daughter were killed, raising two kids -- I went through, out of necessity, trying to figure out how to get a nanny to help me out. Thank god I had my sister and my mother.",
"But I went through that, to try to relieve them.",
"Guess what? Most of the illegals that came to seek a job with me, they did not speak Spanish. They were from Ireland, England. They were from Germany. They were from Poland.",
"The majority of the people here undocumented, 60 percent, are not Spanish speaking. They've overstayed their visas.",
"BIDEN: Well, Chris tells me they are. The data I received was that the total amount of people who are here undocumented, and the people overstaying their visas, were people who are not from Latin America.",
"Chris knows more about this than...",
"BIDEN: But the point is, the idea here is that it seems to me there's an obligation on the part of an employer who is seeking someone to work for him or her to know whether or not that opportunity is being given first to an American, before they hire someone here who is legal or illegal -- I mean, excuse me, who is illegal. I mean...",
"Those Irish people and others, illegal immigrants, you interviewed. Did you hire one?",
"BIDEN: Did not hire one. Absolutely not.",
"BIDEN: I found -- I didn't find anyone. I thank God for my sister.",
"And by the way, you may remember, I'm the guy that reminded the former administration that Zoe Baird was a little bit of a problem, if you may remember.",
"Senator Edwards, in a recent debate, you said, as I'm sure you've said many times, that illegal workers are exploited, that they're paid less, if they try to report problems, they're asked about their immigration status.",
"But you have also said that you do not believe that illegal immigration is driving down wages. If they're being paid less, how can they not be driving down wages?",
"BIDEN: Look, I've been working with this for a long time, as former chairman of the Judiciary Committee -- that's where it comes out of. We have it about right now, except that the employers aren't doing their part.",
"You used the example of an Indian engineer who'd work less than an American engineer. The truth is they're not allowed to hire based on that.",
"They got offered the job. If there's American there that will take the job, they can't undercut it by hiring an Indian engineer who will work for less. That's illegal. We're not enforcing it.",
"The second point I'd make is, you know, we make this all out to be so black and white. I'm the author of the Violence Against Women Act. It came to my attention not long -- it's relevant, believe it or not.",
"What happened? Immigrant women getting the living crap beat out of them; getting brutalized -- brutalized. And they're afraid to come forward and acknowledge they're being brutalized because they'll be deported.",
"So what we have to do, sometimes humanitarian needs trump -- trump immigration laws. So what did I do? I changed the law. My colleagues all voted for it.",
"It's now the law that a woman who comes forward of being beaten will be effectively immune from being deported so you can put the SOB who's beating her in jail.",
"So sometimes it trumps.",
"Sometimes humanitarian needs trump an existing law relating to immigration like that.",
"BIDEN: Yes, it will change our culture. But they'll speak English. Like every other large wave of immigrants, once they are bond with the second generation, they'll all be speaking English.",
"What's the fear here? Give me an example where that hasn't happened.",
"BIDEN: Stop bragging.",
"BIDEN: I know exactly what I'd do on those foreign policy issues, but, quite frankly, I think the toughest choice for me, the thing I'm most unsure about is how you rationalize competition in trade policy.",
"I think that's the single most difficult challenge that I will have as president."
