"BIDEN: They have ballooned the deficit with their bad priorities.",
"BIDEN: The short term -- by the way, the Defense Department's gigantic, it's not just the war in Iraq. Over the period of the first four years, I think all of us are going to try to get all the troops out of there. I think I can do it in the first year.",
"But the point is this: We shouldn't buy into this Republican paradigm, to use the fancy word my conservative friends use, and that is that the idea -- they built this deficit up, the Republicans, in order to make it difficult to do the things we need to do. And we need to deal with health care, we need to deal with these things.",
"And just list a few things.",
"BIDEN: You can take $20 billion a year out of the Defense Department just by eliminating weapons systems; not building the new atomic weapon, not building Star Wars.",
"You can, in fact, cut -- you can put more into the government by close to $150 billion. And tax cuts going to people who don't need them will not affect the economy, and they didn't ask for them.",
"So you can pay for every one of these initiatives. But, as my dad used to say, it's all about priorities. What are your priorities?",
"I would fundamentally change the Republican priorities of rewarding only the wealthy, wasteful government programs in the Defense Department, as well as dealing with a more rational policy to promote jobs.",
"BIDEN: Yes.",
"Entitlements will be a problem if we don't act. But the solutions are within our capacity.",
"Social Security is an entitlement program. By lifting the cap in Social Security, it'll be solvent as long as any young person in this auditorium, no matter how young they are, number one.",
"Number two, Hillary touched the points about Medicare. Medicare, in fact, it's cost. It's not new benefits, it's cost.",
"BIDEN: And the whole idea there is that the combination of the $10 billion we're overpaying HMOs a year, the combination of prescription drug costs being able to be negotiated by the federal government for Medicare, and the combination of modernizing the system so you deal with chronic disease and others which it's estimated we could save over $100 billion a year in Medicare -- in Medicare, if we'd made all these modernizations and changes.",
"So it is within our capability to do it. The question is, you got to act. And this is all about action. And I think they're totally within our capacity to do both of those things.",
"BIDEN: We should hold them accountable. Every new trade agreement -- and I voted against them all since CAFTA, including CAFTA -- every new trade agreement should have built into it what we all talk about. We talk about environmental standards and labor standards, but we talk about it in terms of preserving jobs here, which is important. But it's also about human rights.",
"How are we possibly helping a third world country, a developing country by signing an agreement with them knowing that they're going to exploit workers, they're going to exploit their own citizenry either with -- by polluting their lungs or their drinking water and/or putting them in a position where they're getting paid a couple bucks a week?",
"BIDEN: So it should be a condition to every trade agreement that we engage in.",
"BIDEN: Well, you know, folks talk about this election being about experience or change. It's really about action and pragmatic solutions. And that's what I've done my whole career with the Violence Against Women Act, the crime bill, the Balkans, helping stop the genocide there.",
"And, ladies and gentlemen, you know, leadership is also about knowing who you are, what you believe, and what your priorities are, and what you'll do. In my case, I'll start by ending that war in Iraq.",
"And also trust the American people. They're ready. They're ready to get up.",
"There's a hymn in my church -- our church, some of us here -- that says, \"May he raise you up on eagle's wings and bear you on the breath of dawn and let the light shine on you.\" It's time to raise this country up. The American people are genuinely ready to do that.",
"BIDEN: It'll take -- to begin it, it won't take long at all. We should increase the mileage for automobiles, require it. We should make sure that every new car sold in America beginning in 2009 is a flex-fuel automobile. We should be investing a great deal more in cellulosics research, because corn ethanol is not going to take us the whole way.",
"But the bottom line is: You got to make it a fundamental priority. You got to say that we are going to make a major change.",
"BIDEN: And that requires a significant investment in alternative energy, renewable energy, moving from 2 percent to 20 percent by the end of this next decade, in 2020.",
"But the bottom line here is, the president's got to make this a moral crusade for the American people. We're going to have to sacrifice to be able to get by, and for the next couple of years, in order to be able to get a handle on the energy crisis.",
"BIDEN: I would have voted for it. Look, you know, one of the interesting things, the first time I ever came out to Iowa was with Senator Culver on his first campaign in '74.",
"And one thing seems different now. You ride across this magnificent state and you see so much open land -- and so few farmers. It's kind of fascinating.",
"You know, you'd think you'd see a farmhouse every, you know, 800 acres or so. But the irony is, this is all about: How do you preserve family farmers? Only 550,000 of them left.",
"BIDEN: And if you continue the system the way it is, it's breaking the system. It's going to just flat break the system.",
"And the cost of, you know, the cost of an acreage has gone up with these excessive payments -- the fact that we're not focusing on the things which the farm program started out to focus on, helping farmers in distress and being the balance -- the ballast when the market was out of whack.",
"It's gotten all -- it's gotten all out of whack. And so it seems to me that we need a radical change. Tom is working hard on that. But I would have voted for it, and I voted for the -- I voted today the same way Barack and all the rest of us did to maintain -- to lower the caps. And...",
"BIDEN: Well, the reason my wife's not here today is she's teaching. She's been teaching and she teaches full-time. And she has her doctorate in education.",
"But you don't need a doctorate in education to know there's four things everybody out there knows we have to do.",
"BIDEN: Every parent knows it intuitively. Got to start kids at school earlier. You got to put them in smaller classes; the smaller the class, the better the outcome.",
"In order to do that, you need 100,000 more teachers. You got to pay teachers. In this economy, you have six out of 10 going into teaching leaving within five years because the pay's not competitive. And, lastly, you got to provide access to college, and that costs money. And we can easily pay for it. It's about our priorities.",
"BIDEN: I'm going to call the Joint Chiefs of Staff in and tell them to implement the Biden plan, which the United States Senate voted overwhelmingly for to end the war in Iraq, and the Congress is about to vote for it, as well -- and most international leaders have endorsed it.",
"Secondly, I would, in my inaugural address, make it clear to the world that we are abandoning the Bush policy with regard to torture, the Bush policy with regard to renditions, the Bush policy with regard to holding prisoners.",
"And, thirdly, I believe by picking things Americans value most and we can undertake -- take on the interest groups the quickest on, I would insure every single child in America, provide catastrophic health insurance for every child in America before the first year is out on the way to universal health care.",
"BIDEN: And, lastly, I would in fact implement the preschool education proposal that I have here to get it done. I think I'd get that done in the first year.",
"BIDEN: I think he's colorblind. I don't -- I'm really not sure.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"BIDEN: I think that I have my whole career, I got involved in public policy, I got involved in politics because of the civil rights movement. It's the overwhelming core of my support in my home state. I get the overwhelming majority, over 95 percent of the vote of minorities in my state.",
"I may have phrased those things wrongly, but when I talked about the Indian population what I was making the point was they're building families, they're coming buying businesses, 7-Elevens and Dunkin' Donuts and small shops, just like those Italian immigrants used to do, and they're building families.",
"BIDEN: The point I was making about inner-city Washington was a point that Barack just made. Barack made the point -- he said that minorities start off at a disadvantage. They start off with a gap, and achievement gap that exist before they even walk into school -- minorities.",
"And so I was making the same point. It may be possible because I speak so bluntly that people misunderstand. But no one who knows me in my state, no one who I've worked with in the United States Congress has ever wondered about my commitment to civil rights and civil liberties.",
"And if you take a look at my record as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee -- excuse me, of the Judiciary Committee -- ranking member and chairman for 16 years. Starting with the Voting Rights Act and worked us right through to voting against Constitutional Amendments on bussing, when bussing was taking place in my state.",
"My credentials are as good as anyone who's ever run for president of the United States on civil rights.",
"BIDEN: I make the same one every year: remember where I came from.",
"You know, everything can -- your whole life can change in a split second. Things are always beyond your control.",
"BIDEN: And I just -- I, every year, make a resolution to try to remember what it was like when things were really bad, so that I enjoy -- treat my family, treat my colleagues, treat everybody the way they should be treated when things are good.",
"But just remember. Remember where you came from.",
"BIDEN: Iowa deserves to be first, and the reason they do is because they take it so seriously.",
"BIDEN: I've never met a group of people whether in Mokokonah (ph) or Shenandoah or up in the north; wherever you are, people take it seriously. And you always treat us with respect.",
"I've never walked out of a place without someone, even who's not for me, saying, \"Thank you for coming, Senator.\" You deserve to be first, and without you, this democracy is in trouble because it would all go to money."
