"BRADLEY: Good to be with you, Tim.",
"BRADLEY: Well, first of all, Tim, we apologized for that as soon as it came out. It was unauthorized. I do think that there have been some misrepresentations, one of which relates to the total cost of the program. The program will cost between $55 billion and $65 billion a year. I think that is the most significant change in distortion. I think also frequently when you talk about eliminating a part of the health-care program--for example, Medicaid for the poor--there's an absence of telling the whole story, which is what we replace it with and the elements we replace it with.",
"What we're trying to do is we look out there and we see a health-care system that is in real distress. We find millions of people with health insurance who don't know if they're going to be able to see a doctor or hospital. You see millions of middle-income people unable to afford health insurance, and you find 44 million people without any health insurance.",
"BRADLEY: We would cover about 30 million, but we would make access to quality health care and affordable health care available to everyone.",
"BRADLEY: We would allow every--we'd leave no one out because every person with health insurance would be able to exclude their premium from health insurance. So that applies to everyone. And, plus, there'd be access for everyone, so we'd leave no one out. And I think that the question is: Who would you leave out?",
"BRADLEY: Well, we look at the next several years as a way to get to 30 million with access available to all 45 million. And the question really is whether they would choose to do it. We subsidize people up to $50,000 in income for children. We guarantee all children in this country will be covered. It's a default system, and we guarantee that the adults who are under about 17,000 will be fully covered.",
"BRADLEY: That's wrong. That's not correct.",
"BRADLEY: It's not a voucher.",
"BRADLEY: Absolutely.",
"BRADLEY: Wrong. That's not right.",
"BRADLEY: That's not correct.",
"BRADLEY: No.",
"BRADLEY: First of all, it's a particular Washington perspective to say that Medicaid is just fine right now. Medicaid is supposed to cover people who are poor but 40 percent of the people who are in poverty in this country do not have any health insurance. None. Medicaid doesn't cover them. Under our proposal, they would have health insurance. In terms of long-term care, we keep the same amount of money that Medicaid spends on long-term care now. It's the same amount of money that will go to the states; the states will have that same amount of money to spend. So the fact of the matter is that this is incorrect. And the real question is whether you're willing to deal with a big problem, a comprehensive problem in a way that ensures middle-class Americans some health. Al does nothing for middle-class Americans.",
"BRADLEY: The reality is that millions of middle-class Americans out there are struggling to meet their premium payments. Every year, premiums go up and they have no help. We're going to help the middle-class Americans, in addition to covering people who don't have any health insurance.",
"BRADLEY: Sure, but the money comes from the federal government to the states as it does now with federal nursing home requirements.",
"BRADLEY: Absolutely.",
"BRADLEY: Well, they'd be available as soon as the law was passed. It would phased in.",
"BRADLEY: It is definitely more expensive.",
"BRADLEY: That's why we have guaranteed coverage of 30 million and he has guaranteed coverage of seven million. A study last week by Harvard and Stanford basically said that.",
"BRADLEY: You're quoting Marty Felstein?",
"BRADLEY: That's incorrect.",
"BRADLEY: Right now...",
"BRADLEY: No. First of all, it's not a cap; it's a weighted average. And second, there are now in the federal system 31 plans available for people at that level.",
"BRADLEY: Tim, no, I don't propose that. And I think that if you're going to deal with this issue, first, you've got to start with Social Security as a sacred trust. No one is going to let Social Security go. Fifty percent of the people on Social Security, if they didn't have Social Security, would be in poverty. I believe that the most important thing you can do, first, is you take the Social Security trust fund out of the budget, you put it over on the side. So you set aside $1.9 trillion over the next decade for Social Security. And then what you do is you manage the economy so you have higher levels of economic growth.",
"The whole thing is premised on growth of about 2.9 percent. If we can grow faster--last quarter was like 5 percent, 5.5 percent--that will be more money coming into the trust fund. And if you're going to ever get to the 75-year number that the trustees say is necessary, the only way that that is going to happen is if you have a leader who is going to be able to push a bipartisan approach to the problem and get people around a table to decide how we're going to get there. That is precisely what happened in 1983. In 1983, we were on the brink of bankruptcy. People said we couldn't possibly save it. And yet we got people around the table, Republicans and Democrats, and came up with a solution that has lasted until 2030, 2035.",
"BRADLEY: Tim, I'm not going to get into going down the whole list of possibilities. When you're out there, you have a negotiation, and you are trying to get together people so this does not remain a political football.",
"BRADLEY: No, I'm not...",
"BRADLEY: Which is incorrect. Which is totally incorrect.",
"BRADLEY: What happens then, Tim, is that Al's solution is gone, and we're back to what I said, which is you have to have a leader who's going to be able to convene a bipartisan approach to this problem to consider all the possibilities. No one is going to let Medicare or Social Security go bankrupt, you know.",
"BRADLEY: Well, all of the things that you mentioned. For example...",
"BRADLEY: Well, I'm not going to get--I said no on retirement age, but I'm not going to get into all these other issues.",
"BRADLEY: Well, that's wh...",
"BRADLEY: No, no, that's partly because...",
"BRADLEY: ...this has become nothing but a political football since 1983. One party has used it against the other since 1983, and the reality is that the only way this is going to be solved is if you can prevent it from being a political football, like Al's criticism of vote for me to continue discussion on a variety of options at the same time; the administration was considering the same discussion.",
"BRADLEY: I mean, you know, if it's OK for the administration to discuss...",
"BRADLEY: Oh, you didn't discuss it in all of your Social Security forums out there?",
"BRADLEY: No one ever did, right? No one ever did. Give me a break. Give me a break.",
"BRADLEY: But the point is at the same time you criticized me for wanting discussion in the United States Senate on a variety of possibilities, the exact thing Tim is talking about, you are out and your administration is out doing the same thing, doing all the same thing.",
"BRADLEY: We said no. We said no. I said that. OK?",
"BRADLEY: But the point is the tough choice has to be made.",
"BRADLEY: And...",
"BRADLEY: And Al referred to only in emergencies. The reality is--look at what the emergencies the Congress declared last month were. This is ridiculous.",
"BRADLEY: The answer is, Tim, that--no. And I will tell you why. I have supported vouchers on an experimental basis on a number of occasions over 18 years. I do not believe that vouchers are the answers to the problems of public education. There are 47 million children in public schools, six million children in private schools, 90 percent capacity. How could 600,000 slots be the answer to the problem of 47 million children in this country? Every time I voted for vouchers, I voted for it as an experimental basis and I also said that I would not take any public money that was set aside for schools. This would be new money in order to do this experiment. So I've said, no, I don't think that we're going to need that. There are experiments out there in the country today and those experiments are in Cleveland and Milwaukee. And, quite frankly, the issue is how do you improve the quality of public education in this country? And if those experiments demonstrated that the quality of public education was improved because of the competition, I think that it would be very difficult to turn your back on that evidence, and I would ask Al because the position that he's had...",
"BRADLEY: Well, I think over the next several years. I mean, it's too early to tell.",
"BRADLEY: No to tuition tax credits.",
"BRADLEY: Because I don't think that tax cuts should be gummed up with a lot of credits. I prefer a tax system with lower rates and fewer loopholes.",
"BRADLEY: I'd like to flip this to Al because...",
"BRADLEY: Well, I'd like to ask Al, you know, if the experiments demonstrated that the quality of public education was improved, does that mean that you would not even consider vouchers?",
"BRADLEY: What does that mean? What does that mean?",
"BRADLEY: But you're talking about a federal experiment.",
"BRADLEY: Tim...",
"BRADLEY: Yes, Tim. I don't think that anyone should question my commitment to public education. I also don't think they should question what I've proposed. I believe that there should be a strong federal commitment to education. Everything that we've learned about how children learn--they learn a lot in the first two to three years in life. Early child care is tremendously important. I've proposed a specific program for early child care. I proposed doubling the number of people in Head Start. When you get to the elementary and secondary school level, the single most important thing that the national government could do is to make sure there's a good teacher in every classroom--every classroom--in this country. I have proposed a way to get 600,000 teachers into classrooms of public schools over the next 10 years.",
"And then since the federal commitment should be from birth, include everyone and go through all life stages, I make a strong commitment to community colleges in this country because that's where the kids go first to college and to a two-year, then to a four-year college. And that's where lifetime learning takes place. So the commitment, in my view, has to be in the places where people live their lives.",
"I think the differences Al proposes in education program, many of the things that, you know, I don't have a problem with, but it comes from Washington as an education program as opposed to helping people where they live their lives. If you are that young mother you were talking about, and you need to get just a little skill, and you don't have any way to get that skill, well, you could go to a community college, but then there's nobody to look after your children. You have to have somebody to look after your children, so you go to a community college. That's education help where people are living their lives.",
"I also think that the teacher shortage in this country is going to be dramatic over the next decade; 2.2 million teachers will retire over the next decade. That's why the single most important thing that the national government can do is to make sure that there's a good teacher in every classroom in this country.",
"BRADLEY: No, I took the position last summer in a speech that I made--I asked the vice president to join me. He did not join me. There was no acceptance of the challenge I offered him. The day after I made the speech John McCain...",
"BRADLEY: I have not ruled out the possibility of unilateral.",
"BRADLEY: However, if you look at the Republican money machine, it would be very difficult to do so.",
"BRADLEY: It sounds to me like you're having trouble raising money. I mean...",
"BRADLEY: I mean, this is a ridiculous proposal. You know, the way you communicate with people is when you talk to them. See, I love to talk to them in town meetings. That's my favorite place. I've been doing that since January. But I also love to talk to them over television in their living rooms.",
"BRADLEY: I love to talk to them about what I want to do with the country, who I am, where I'm from, what I believe and where I want to take the country.",
"BRADLEY: Absolutely.",
"BRADLEY: And the point is, that's not so difficult to do if you know what you believe, and if you know where you want to take the country, if you have a positive vision, if you're involved only in trying to go against someone, trying to hammer someone about this is wrong, that's wrong...",
"BRADLEY: ...whether it's my health-care plan or what then you only have a negative message.",
"BRADLEY: I'm talking about positive messages...",
"BRADLEY: ...to talk to people about where the country should go.",
"BRADLEY: I know you haven't.",
"BRADLEY: I call upon you now to apologize.",
"BRADLEY: Do you apologize?",
"BRADLEY: OK. Well, there it is. There it is.",
"BRADLEY: You know something, for 10 months that I was running for president, you ignored me. You pretended I didn't exist. Suddenly I start to do better, and you want to debate every day. It's ridiculous. We're having debates. We had a debate the other night in New Hampshire. We're on MEET THE PRESS today. We're going to be in Iowa and New Hampshire the first week of January. The point is, Al--and I don't know if you get this--but a political campaign is not just a performance for people, which is what this is. But it is, rather, a dialogue...",
"BRADLEY: ...with people, Al. It's a dialogue with people where you listen to their stories, where you listen to what they have to say about their county's future, where you seek to engage them and convince them that the directions that you want to take the country is the right way. That's what a campaign's about.",
"BRADLEY: ...direction that this country's taking.",
"BRADLEY: The direction the country goes.",
"BRADLEY: And that was a very interesting ploy on MEET THE PRESS.","BRADLEY: It was nothing but a ploy.",
"BRADLEY: No, to come here, shake my hand, that's nothing but a ploy.",
"BRADLEY: Will you commit not to run any negative ads?",
"BRADLEY: No, no, will you attack--no attack ads.",
"BRADLEY: I thought that a lot of people in politics were embarrassed by it, quite frankly. I think Republicans and Democrats were disgraceful in that fund-raising program in 1996. Now, I think Al had the right point. It's the lessons that you learn. In 1990, I raised a lot of money for my Senate race. I raised too much money. I discovered that you can have too much money in a political campaign. I think that's what George Bush is going to discover.",
"Now, in Al's case, the attorney general investigated it fully and determined that an independent counsel was not needed. And so--and the Republicans might make that an issue, but that's the reality. But I think the question is what you learn from this. And what I learned is that you've had seven years to actually do something on campaign-finance reform, and nothing has happened. I remember visiting the White House in 1993, Democratic Congress, both Senate and House, and urging the president to act on campaign-finance reform. Now, I don't know if you were in the loop or not, but the fact of the matter is that no action took place. And when we say what we...",
"BRADLEY: ...what we need to do...",
"BRADLEY: ...what we--where was the effort made, Al, in 1993?",
"BRADLEY: If the people understand it--let me finish. Let me finish.",
"BRADLEY: If the people understand that, then the people have given you a mandate, and that mandate overcomes the opposition of Washington special interests.",
"BRADLEY: All right. Let's take this pharmaceutical question head on.",
"BRADLEY: Let's take it head on.",
"BRADLEY: I heard that. I heard that before.",
"BRADLEY: I heard that before.",
"BRADLEY: You know, we went through a lot over the last year with impeachment, and while I don't think that what the president did reached the level of impeachment, anytime a president lies to the people, he squanders the people's trust and undermines his own authority. And this was a sad time for our country and I don't think that the taxpayers should pay for the consequences of that act.",
"BRADLEY: Personally I'd pick Lincoln, F.D.R., Washington, Jefferson.",
"BRADLEY: And I would pick, say, Lincoln and F.D.R., not only because of what they did for the country at times of great crisis but because they also embodied the country of their period. For example, every time Lincoln went to have breakfast--his wife's sister was married to a Confederate officer, and when he was killed, she came to the White House. So he confronted the Civil War every day. It gave him a deeper sense of our reality.",
"BRADLEY: Right.",
"BRADLEY: Tim, I made the call as I saw it at the time. I was not against the use of force. The question was whether we should use force at that time or continue sanctions. I voted to continue sanctions. And my sense is if they hadn't worked, there would have been a vote before us later and I would have voted for it.",
"BRADLEY: I think that--my judgment is that it turned out--that it worked well, but I made the call and I'll stand by that call.",
"BRADLEY: I didn't...",
"BRADLEY: I didn't oppose our participation in Bosnia.",
"BRADLEY: There was a vote on the Senate floor.",
"BRADLEY: The fact of the matter...",
"BRADLEY: Well, I guarantee one thing I wouldn't do. I look at the U.N. resolution that just passed, I think the only reason the Security Council should have acted would be to tighten sanctions. And what this did was loosen them up, putting in not the old inspection group, but a new inspection group controlled and affected by different countries. I happen to think that it's a very serious mistake. We should not have gone in that direction.",
"BRADLEY: I would reserve the right to do that, of course. The question is--you'd have to read the intelligence report. You' have to read where we were at a particular time. You don't commit in a political campaign you're going to use force until you're able to see what the situation is on the ground.",
"BRADLEY: I think the most defining moment in my life was when I made a decision to leave a small town in Missouri and come East and go to school at Princeton. I mean, that was what changed my life.",
"BRADLEY: I would say the Civil Rights Act of 1964 that opened up our system and allowed us to take a step forward of our collective humanity and the passage of Medicare.",
"BRADLEY: I think that we offer different styles of leadership. I think that's what the people have to choose. When I was in the United States Senate, I'd take big, complicated issues like taxes, international trade and put a structure of reform around those and push that reform. I would take issues that were considered volatile like race and try to play to our better angels. And each time I did that, someone would come to me and say, \"You know, that's a political risk.\" And I said, \"Yes, but that is the risk of leadership.\" In this campaign I think that we see that I would try to do bold things again in terms of the toughest gun control proposal that any candidate has offered, in terms of making health care, quality health care, access to it, available to all Americans.",
"BRADLEY: Merry Christmas.",
"BRADLEY: Thank you."