"Bradley: Let me thank the sponsors of the debate for the opportunity to be here today.",
"I grew up in a small town in Missouri on the banks of the Mississippi River. It was a town that had 3,492 people in it, there were 96 in my high school graduating class, and it had one stop light. It was a town — it was a factory town. Most of the people worked in the glass factory, and yet a lot of the students in high school came in, bused in from farms in the neighboring area. It was a multi-racial, multi-ethnic town. It was a very special place to grow up.",
"I learned a lot of values there: courage, discipline, respect, responsibility, resilience. I carry them with me.",
"A lot of the small towns that I've gone through and met people in in Iowa remind me of that small town in Missouri. And, you know, I find that in the course of this campaign, I've had a chance to talk about a lot of things with Iowans. And I look forward this debate to continue that discussion.",
"Bradley: Well, I think that the lady in question has a lot of company out there in the world today. I think that senior citizens are really inundated by high medical costs, indeed, particularly high drug costs. That's why, as a part of an overall health care program that I've proposed, that I cover drug costs for senior citizens. After they've paid the first $800, they pay 25 percent above that.",
"And this will be a tremendous benefit.",
"The other night, for example, I was out on the picket at Local 147 of the Teamsters Union. Had a chance to talk to a lady there who told me that her mother paid $10,000 a year for drug costs. All of her Social Security check went right to pay for the drugs.",
"And I thought, as she was talking, that she was precisely the person that I intend to help. Because if she had had the program that I'm advocating, the most she would have paid is about $3,000 not $10,000.",
"And we've got to remember that when we have the elderly treated with life-saving drugs, they will live longer — chronic disease, catastrophic disease. So, if we make sure they get access to the right drugs and we pay for them, that will save overall health care costs, because they will not be put into hospitals or have to pay very much high expenses for doctor bills.",
"So, it makes good sense in a human area. It also makes tremendous sense in terms of saving money.",
"Bradley: Again, a slight misrepresentation. I replace Medicaid with something that is better. That's always conveniently ignored.",
"Let me say, I think Al has the view that, if we provide universal health coverage for everybody, that we can't protect Medicare; if we protect Medicare, we can't provide universal health coverage for everybody.",
"Now, I don't agree with that. I think we can do both. And this morning the Congressional Budget Office and the Office of Management and Budget said that the net surplus over the next decade is going to be another $800 billion. So we can do both.",
"Bradley: I think the most important thing we can do is to use our authority under the World Trade Organization in order to petition to get access to markets. When, for example, Europe blocked our beef because of beef hormones, we went to the WTO. We farmed a dispute settlement mechanism. We presented our case and they ruled in our favor. There's still delaying the entry of that beef into Europe, but the decision was made.",
"I think we have to continue to push, under the remedies that are available to us under the World Trade Organization, to get access to markets for our agricultural goods.",
"But we all know that the problem of agriculture in this country is serious. In Iowa it's dead serious. I've talked to thousands of family farmers over the last year and it means we have to change policy. It means we have to get the antitrust division to get after these large packers that are discriminating against family farmers. It means that we have to have a conservation reserve program expanded. It means that we have to provide income supplement to farmers, based upon the relationship between price and their costs, and it has to go to them with a cap so it only goes to family farmers and not to big corporate farmers.",
"And then we have to help our family farmers get a bigger chunk of the food dollar. Now they only get 20 cents of the food dollar. They should get more.",
"I was down in Delaware County not so long ago talking to some hog producers, and they had an idea. They butchered their own meat, they didn't sell it to a big hog producer. And when they did that, they were able to sell it.",
"We need to help family farmers move further up that chain and get a bigger piece of that food dollar.",
"Bradley: I would like to take my 30-seconds and go back to the question of Medicare quite frankly. [laughter]",
"Because the vice president said that I was prepared to let Medicare go. Absolutely not. For 18 years in the United States Senate, I fought to protect Medicare; protected premiums from going up for senior citizens time and time again. I will always do that. Medicare is solid now until 2015, 2017. If we continue to have this economic growth, we're going to have it even longer.",
"And if we continue to have a health care program that's going to make the elderly — before they become elderly because of the program that I've offered healthier — it's going to cost us less money.",
"Bradley: Al, in 1964, 76 percent of the people in this country said they trusted the government to do the right thing most of the time. That number is now down to 29 percent. Why do you think that's so? Gore: I think it's happened for a variety of reasons, Bill. I think that the assassination of President Kennedy marked a rite of passage in our nation when many people began to think that something bad started to go wrong, because right after that we got mired in the Vietnam War.",
"You know, I was in the Army at that time and I came home thoroughly disillusioned with politics, partly because of the same kind of changes that a lot of other people were seeing in our country.",
"Right after that, our hopes were raised with the civil rights movement, with the campaign of Bobby Kennedy, and then with the assassination of Dr. King and Bobby Kennedy those hopes for many were dashed, and then Richard Nixon was elected and Watergate took place.",
"And you know, at that time I thought politics would be the very last thing I ever did with my life. But I saw how people who were willing to fight against those problems and against cynicism could make a real difference. And that's why I decided to start fighting for a better future.",
"I think that we need campaign finance reform in order to restore a sense of trust and integrity in our government, and that's why I've supported, for 20 years, full public financing of elections. That's why I don't accept any PAC contributions.",
"And that's why I have suggested that we have twice-weekly debates, and instead of depending on these 30-second television ads and 60-second television ads, let's depend on debates like this one. Maybe the next one could be on agriculture. I know that you have said no, but as they say on that millionaire show: Is that your final answer? [laughter]",
"Bradley: You know, I — I'm glad you mentioned campaign finance reform. I think that it's terribly important. I think the rich should have the right to buy as many homes and cars and houses that they want, but they shouldn't have a right to buy democracy.",
"But I think there's another element, too; and that is candidates going out and telling people what they believe — not taking polls, but telling what they believe. And in 30 seconds you can say a lot.",
"I'm for a women's right to choose. I'm for affordable, quality health care accessible to all Americans. I'm for education improvement in this country. I am for trying to make sure campaign finance reform is a reality, that working families have a better chance to advance, and that we eliminate child poverty in this country. How's that?",
"Bradley: You know, Al, I think that the premise of your question is wrong. This is not about the past. This is about the future. This is about what we're going to do to change the agriculture policy we've had the last eight, 10 years — the Republicans and Democrats.",
"The family farmers that I've talked to in this state where the backbone of this agricultural economy have had no real help. Freedom to Farm failed. There was supposed to be a safety net. The administration said they were going to put a safety net in, and the first year after it passed, no safety net whatsoever. The reality is that we need to have a change in agriculture policy. Every family farmer — and I can't tell you how many have told me this year that they've been at it for generations. They're on the brink of bankruptcy. They're not getting any help. The corporations are getting all the help. Freedom to Farm gives all the money to the corporations and the big corporate farms, not to the small family farm. And that's why the suggestions that I've made for a change in agriculture policy are aimed to dramatically improve the circumstance for small family farms in this country.",
"So you can talk about the past, but I prefer to talk about the future.",
"Bradley: Well, let's take ethanol, OK, you raised that question. I opposed the mandate for ethanol. Bad for my state. It would have meant higher prices. It would have meant also the fact that people had to pay higher costs. I still oppose the mandate for ethanol.",
"But I do not oppose tax subsidies for ethanol. That was the change. And that came after talking to a lot of family farmers.",
"And you know something, when they said FDR wasn't going to be good for agriculture, you know what he did? He came to Iowa and appointed Henry Wallace as his agricultural secretary. Now, I'm not saying Tom Vilsack's interested...[laughter]... but what I'm saying is, under my administration the agricultural secretary will think of the family farmer first all across this country.",
"Bradley: I think the most important challenge for the next president of the United States in the international arena is maintaining strategic stability that now exists between China, Japan, Russia, Europe and the United States.",
"If we have any disruption of that, there'll be another arms race, we'll lose a lot of momentum that we have going forward. That is the central most important thing.",
"Second, I think we need to take our defense budget and move it more to a post-Cold War defense budget. We're still locked in the Cold War with a lot of assumptions and weapon systems that should change to meet the new threats, like nuclear proliferation, biological and chemical weapons, like cyberwar, terrorism, and threats in the Persian Gulf and in Northeast Asia.",
"And I think that, third, we need to be making a strong decision about the question that was asked.",
"I don't think that we can be the policeman to the world. I don't think we have the wisdom or the resources to do that. And that means we're going to have to move more and more to multilateral forums to resolve this, such as the United Nations. I personally think the action in East Timor is an example of how work right. And so I believe that the key thing is to never relinquish control of our troops, our command, but integrate more fully into a United Nations operation to deal with these ethnic disputes that are popping up all over the world today. We can't be involved in all 32 ethnic disputes in the world with our own forces. It has to be something we do together.",
"Bradley: I think that, of course, we want to support the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, but we also need to have an administration that will push to reduce the threat of nuclear war everywhere. And one of the things that strikes me is that we haven't moved quickly enough in the last several years to reduce strategic nuclear weapons between the United States and the former Soviet Union.",
"I believe we need to move on quickly beyond Start II, to a negotiation for Start III in order to lower nuclear weapons.",
"Bradley: Well, I think that we can have a steady-state military budget and have money left over to do the pressing social needs in this country. For example, I've proposed a national health insurance bill that will provide access to affordable, quality health care for all Americans. I'm the only candidate in the race that's done that. I am also taking a large amount of the money and helping middle-class families. I was out on that Teamster's picket line the other night. And a man came up to me and said, \"I have a health insurance here, but my child has cerebral palsy and I can't get any coverage.\"",
"And so what I would do is make sure the money goes to them even if they have health insurance, so they can upgrade their health insurance. We can do that for about $55 billion to $65 billion a year.",
"You know, it used to be popular in politics to say that you were fighting for the people who work hard and play by the rules. I am still fighting for the people who work hard and play by the rules.",
"We have tremendous economic growth driven by technological change and globalization, innovation, entrepreneurship in the private sector. That is producing this tremendous surplus. That means we can do more to try to help community colleges. I've proposed a way to do that — $2 billion for community colleges — because that's where people learn more so that they can earn more for a lifetime.",
"And one of the things that strikes me, relative to your question, is if you look at what Al wants to spend money on, he wants to spend $127 billion on defense increases and wants to spend less than that for education.",
"Bradley: Well, again, misrepresenting. There are programs under the federal health system in Iowa for $150. But the point is, this is not a $150 voucher. And I think the people of Iowa ought to understand this.",
"This is not a $150 voucher. This is a weighted average. What does that mean? That means in some states you'll do it for a $100. In other states, you'll do it $180, $190.",
"So what we have here is a scare tactic to try to make people say that what I want to do in terms of replacing Medicaid with something better, so that 40 percent of the people who live in poverty in this country who don't have Medicaid or any health insurance, will have some health insurance, will be afraid to make this change. I reject that kind of politics.",
"Bradley: Well, first of all what I would do is look at education a little more broadly. I think we should have a strong federal commitment to education. I think it should begin at birth, and extend for lifetime and be available for everyone.",
"So I think we need a major investment in early education and early child care. I would get kids ready to learn by doubling the slots in Head Start. I would then propose adding 600,000 great new teachers to the public schools of this country over the next decade.",
"I would increase dramatically the number of after-school programs that are available to children in this country between the hours of 3:00 and 8:00, which is when most of the juvenile crime takes place. And I would make a major investment in community colleges across this country for the reasons I stated earlier.",
"But I think there are other things, too, that are relevant to education. I think that when a child arrives at the first grade and hasn't had any health care and is sick, a good health care insurance is education policy as well.",
"I think last year, when 800,000 kids took a gun to school, that sensible gun control is good education policy as well.",
"So, you can look at education in terms of where people live their lives — and that's the way I look at it — or you can look at it as if it's some bureaucratic box that says \"education\" that's unrelated to everything else we do in our lives. I think it's a different perspective on how we view education in this country. I have the perspective of life, and I think the vice president has a perspective that it's a box called education.",
"Bradley: You know, when I was growing up in that small town in Missouri I went to public school, public grade school, public high school. My mother was a public school teacher, my aunt was a public school teacher. I'm committed to public education.",
"The most important thing that we can do to improve public education in this country in the next decade is to make sure that there's a great teacher in every classroom.",
"We have to be focused in order to achieve these things. We can spread our interest over the horizon, but if we're focused we can get a great new teacher in every public school classroom in this country, and that is what's important.",
"Bradley: I've talked to so many young people who ask me the same question, so many parents who live through Columbine and saw it and saw their high school and wondered if that could happen in their community.",
"I mean, 13 kids were killed at Columbine, but 13 kids are killed every day on the streets in this country; 800,000 kids took a gun to school. So the first step is common sense gun control. And by that I mean registration and licensing of all hand guns in America. If we can do that for automobiles, we ought to be able to do that — we ought to be able to do that for hand guns. I'm the only person who's called for registration and licensing of all hand guns. That takes leadership and that's what a president should provide.",
"The next thing is, every year in New Jersey I used to have a high school seminar. We discussed different topics. Five hundred kids would come. One year, we had a topic on violence. And I walked into the seminar room and I said to the kids, could you — I'm trying to be provocative — Have you ever seen anybody killed? And two of the kids raised their hands. And I said, Describe it. He described how somebody stepped up next to somebody on the side on the street corner and blew off the back of his head. And he described it in vivid detail. And then he said, You know something, Senator, it was nothing like it looked on TV. In other words, there wasn't a commercial followed by a sitcom. It was a moment of finality.",
"So we have to hold the media accountable for what they do. And then we have to create some opportunity for kids to believe in something deeper than simply the possession of material things.",
"Those are three elements to try to deal with your problem. And, of course, parents didn't know that their kids are — should know their kids are not building bombs in the basement as well.",
"Bradley: Yes. I would say that this is an issue that challenges the very best in us. And there is real fear out there in the country. I mean, I was in a middle school about kids worried about — worried about violence in the middle school escalating to violence in the high school. And I was sitting around a table talking to the people and some counselor — I said, What's the difference between now and 25 years ago? — said, The first difference is that there are not enough adults in these kids' lives. The second difference is the media inundates them with sex without meaning and violence without context and they don't want to hear it.",
"Bradley: We can change that with a new ethic of responsibility.",
"Bradley: That's a fundamental question for our democracy. One of the reasons that I got into this race was try to restore confidence in the collective will and a belief in public integrity.",
"I think that the single most important thing is campaign finance reform.",
"Money distorts the democratic process in a fundamental way. I mean, I was on the Senate Finance Committee for 18 years; I saw what happened. You'd be in a meeting and you would have a big tax bill — hundred billions of dollars at stake. Cell phones, lobbyists, the whole room, lined up outside. Somebody wrote a book about it called \"The Shootout at Gucci Gulch.\" And they'd be getting on the phone, said, I got your thing in the tax code, I got your thing in the tax code, you don't have to pay any taxes. But of course that leaves the rest of us paying more taxes than we should be paying.",
"Three days later, in the same room, there would be a discussion about child poverty. It would be virtually empty. We'd be talking about tens of millions of dollars. There would be no cell phones and the only noise you would hear would be a murmur of too few people dividing too few money to deal with too big a problem.",
"The rich in this country should be able to buy as many vacations and homes and cars as they want, but they shouldn't be able to buy our democracy.",
"And until we have public financing of elections — we spend $900 million on democracy abroad, we ought to be able to spend the same amount of money to totally take the special interests out of democracy at home. And then our government will be returned to the people and this woman will believe once again and trust government to do the right thing most of the time.",
"Bradley: Well, speaking of leadership, I think it's terribly important here. It's leadership on campaign finance reform. Al said he's supported it for 20 years. Well, nothing's happened. He said he supports campaign finance reform. The administration has not introduced one bill on campaign finance reform.",
"There is a question here — is who's going to mobilize and get this changed? I've put it out there and talked about it in every meeting I go to because I believe the American people have to take over here. I believe the American people, by voting for me to give me the mandate, will overcome the special interests in Washington. And that is the only thing that's going to overcome the special interests in Washington.",
"Bradley: Well, I support an equal day's pay for an equal day's work. I think that it is very important that leadership uses affirmative action to advance, to break through the glass ceilings that are in our country today.",
"I think that appointments should reflect that you see a world without gender. I think that women in the country today have so much talents burgeoning into the scene in the corporate sector and slowly in government. I think that there's an opportunity to unlock enormous potential in our society, so that we can be as good as we can possibly be.",
"I also think, though, that you have to help women who maybe are not headed toward the glass ceiling but are struggling to make ends meet every day. And that's where increasing help for the Family and Medical Leave Act is enormously important. That's where increasing child care, the dependent child tax credit is important. That's why increasing the child care block grant is important. That's why increasing the minimum wage important.",
"And yes, that is why providing affordable, accessible health care to all Americans is important. Because last year one million more people lost their jobs and lost health insurance. Who were the most of those people? Most of those people were women.",
"So when you talk about health care, you're talking about taking money and putting it on the table for those workers that were on the picket line on Local 147 who need that health care and for the women in this country who, if they don't get it, are going to fall deeper and deeper into poverty.",
"Bradley: This elections not about experience. We both have experience. It's about leadership. It's about presidential leadership.",
"What leadership is about, I believe, is taking a national problem — health care, education — turning it into a public issue, and then engaging the idealism of the American people in order to make something happen.",
"That's what FDR did in the 1930s with Social Security. That's what Lyndon Johnson did with civil rights and Medicare in the 1960s. They didn't say, well, we're just going to cover 20 percent of the people and see how it works out. They said, We're going to cover everybody with Social Security, everybody with Medicare. Just like I want to cover everybody with health care. And when they did that, they made us all better off.",
"And so, bold leadership is important and the absence of bold leadership also has results. For example, let's take agriculture. Al's been hammering me on my agriculture votes 15 years ago. But I would simply ask the family farmers of Iowa today, are you better off than you were seven years ago? Or do we need a change? Do we need to take a step to make things happen?",
"My father was a small-town banker. I once asked him what was his proudest moment. He said his proudest moment was throughout the Great Depression he never foreclosed on a single home. I was naturally proud of him.",
"I'm my father's son and as a president of the United States, I will not rest until rural America and urban America move ahead.",
"I will not rest until we leave no one behind, because only if we leave no one behind can we bring everybody together."
