"BUSH: Right.",
"BUSH: Not on specific issues, not at all. I think the next president — if I'm president, I will appoint people — I'll nominate people that have a proven record in the judiciary.",
"The problem in the past has been we have appointed people thinking you can get it through the Senate because they didn't have a record. And the problem is that sometimes we're surprised.",
"The simple fact is the next president needs to appoint someone with a proven conservative record, similar to Justice Scalia, that is a lover of liberty, that believes in limited government, that consistently applied that kind of philosophy, that didn't try to legislator from the bench, that was respectful of the Constitution.",
"And then fight and fight, and fight for that nomination to make sure that that nomination passes.",
"Of course, the president, by the way, has every right to nominate Supreme Court justices. I'm an Article II guy in the Constitution. We're running for the president of the United States. We want a strong executive for sure. But in return for that, there should be a consensus orientation on that nomination, and there's no doubt in my mind that Barack Obama will not have a consensus pick when he submits that person to the Senate.",
"BUSH: Yes.",
"BUSH: No, it doesn't, and that's the problem. The lack of leadership in this country by Barack Obama, John Kerry, Hillary Clinton, thinking that this is a policy that works, this policy of containment with ISIS. It's a complete, unmitigated disaster. And to allow Russia now to have influence in Syria makes it harder, but we need to destroy ISIS and dispose of Assad to create a stable Syria so that the four million refugees aren't a breeding ground for Islamic jihadists.",
"This is the problem. Donald Trump brought up the fact that he would — he'd want to accommodate Russia. Russia is not taking out ISIS. They're — they're attacking our — our — our team, the team that we've been training and the team that we've been supporting. It is absolutely ludicrous to suggest that Russia could be a positive partner in this. They are on the run. They are making — every time we step back, they're on the run. The question that you asked was a really good one about what you would do — what three things would you do.",
"I would restore the military, the sequester needs to be reversed. I would have a strategy to destroy ISIS, and I would immediately create a policy of containment as it relates to Iran's ambitions, and to make it make clear that we are not going to allow for Iran to do what it's doing, which is to move towards a nuclear weapon.",
"Those three things would be the first and foremost things that we need to do...[bell rings]... in 2017.",
"BUSH: The very basic fact is that Vladimir Putin is not going to be an ally of the United States. The whole world knows this. It's a simple, basic fact. [applause]",
"They're not taking out — they're not even attempting to take out ISIS. They're attacking the troops that we're supporting. We need to create a coalition, Sunni-led coalition on the ground with our special operators to destroy ISIS and bring about stability. And you can't do that with Assad in power. He has...",
"BUSH: ... Let me finish...",
"BUSH: ... This is ridiculous...",
"BUSH: ... This is coming from a guy who gets his foreign policy from the shows.",
"BUSH: ... This is a guy who thinks that Hillary Clinton is a great negotiator in Iran...",
"BUSH: ... This is a man who insults his way to the nomination...",
"BUSH: I think it's my turn, isn't it?",
"BUSH: I've got about five or six...",
"BUSH: Do I get to do it five or six times or just once, responding to that?",
"BUSH: So here's the deal. I'm sick and tired of Barack Obama blaming my brother for all of the problems that he has had. [applause]",
"And, frankly, I could care less about the insults that Donald Trump gives to me. It's blood sport for him. He enjoys it. And I'm glad he's happy about it. But I am sick and tired...",
"BUSH: I am sick and tired of him going after my family. My dad is the greatest man alive in my mind. [applause]",
"And while Donald Trump was building a reality TV show, my brother was building a security apparatus to keep us safe. And I'm proud of what he did. [applause]",
"And he has had the gall to go after my brother.",
"BUSH: He has had the gall to go after my mother.",
"Hold on. Let me finish. He has had the gall to go after my mother.",
"BUSH: Look, I won the lottery when I was born 63 years ago, looked up, and I saw my mom. My mom is the strongest woman I know.",
"BUSH: This is not about my family or his family. This is about the South Carolina families that need someone to be a commander in chief that can lead. I'm that person.",
"BUSH: Can I just...",
"BUSH: I'm not going to invite Donald Trump to the rally in Charleston on Monday afternoon when my brother is coming to speak.",
"BUSH: I'm rescinding the invitation. I thought you might want to come, but I guess not.",
"BUSH: I'd like — can I — can I...",
"BUSH: Look, I admire the fact that Governor Kasich is supporting spending more money on drug treatment and mental health. I think that's a high priority all across this country, but expanding Obamacare is what we're talking about, and Obamacare's expansion, even though the federal government is paying for the great majority of it, is creating further debt on the backs of our children and grandchildren. We should be fighting Obamacare, repealing Obamacare, replacing it with something totally different. [applause]",
"When I was — as a private citizen, Florida was confronted with the choice. The governor was supportive of doing what John did. So was the Florida Senate. A committed speaker of the House asked me to go as a private citizen to make the case against the expansion.",
"I did, and it wasn't expanded there, just as it wasn't expanded in South Carolina under Governor Haley.",
"[crosstalk]",
"BUSH: And Governor Haley is ranked at the top.",
"[crosstalk]",
"BUSH: No. He mentioned my name.",
"BUSH: Let me finish, though. No, no, no — hey, wait, wait, wait. Just hold, Major, hold, Major. Hold on, Major.",
"BUSH: South Carolinians want to make that, they elect the most conservative governor or candidate that can win.",
"BUSH: Of course not. It won't have an impact on hedge funds managers paying ordinary income. In fact, it's not just hedge fund people, but people that are doing — they're in the business of investing other people's money, getting capital gains treatment is not appropriate.",
"They should be paying ordinary income. That's their business. They're grateful to be able to make a lot of money, I'm sure. And what we do is lower the rates. It's not the end of the world that private equity people and hedge fund folks that are, right now, getting capital gains treatment for the income they earn, pay ordinary income like everybody else in this room. That's not a problem at all. What we need to do is reform the tax code to simplify the rates, to shift power away from Washington, D.C. That's what I did as governor of the state of Florida, $19 billion dollars of tax cuts, and it stimulated seven out of the eight years. Florida led the nation in job growth. [applause]",
"BUSH: Thank you.",
"BUSH: Great question. I feel like I have to get into my inner Chris Christie, and point out that the reason why I should be president is listening to two senators talk about arcane amendments to bills that didn't pass. [applause]",
"This is — this is the problem. We need a leader to fix this problem. And I have a detailed plan to do just that, including controlling the border, dealing with the visa over-stayers, making sure that we have a path to legal status, not to citizenship, for those that come out from the shadows and pay a fine, learn English, don't commit crimes, work and pay taxes.",
"That is the better approach.",
"BUSH: The great majority of people that come to this country come because they have no other choice. They want to come to provide for their families. That doesn't mean it's right. That doesn't mean it's right.",
"We should pick who comes to our country. We should control our border. Coming here legally should be a lot easier than coming here illegally. But the motivation, they're not all rapists, as you-know-who said. They're not that.",
"These are people that are coming to provide for their families. And we should show a little more respect for the fact that they're struggling. It doesn't mean we shouldn't be controlling the border. That's exactly what we should be doing.",
"BUSH: ... So, you know...[bell rings]...This is the standard operating procedure, to disparage me. That's fine...",
"BUSH: ... But, if you want to talk about weakness, you want to talk about weakness? It's weak to disparage women. [applause]",
"BUSH: It's weak to denigrate the disabled. And,it's really weak to call John McCain a loser because he was a...",
"BUSH: ... That is outrageous. The guy's an American hero. [applause]",
"BUSH: ... The simple fact is I've also laid out my plans on [inaudible] immigration...",
"BUSH: [inaudible] Just, for the record [inaudible] make sure my mother's listening, if she's watching the debate. I didn't say that I was going to moon somebody...",
"BUSH: So, there — so, there is all sorts of intrigue about where I disagree with my brother, there would be one right there. You should not use eminent domain for private purposes.",
"A baseball stadium or a parking lot for a limo... [laughter]",
"BUSH: It's very different. Transmission lines, pipe lines, bridges and highways. All of that is proper use of imminent domain. Not to take an elderly woman's home to build a parking lot so that high-rollers can come from New York City to build casinos in Atlantic City.",
"BUSH: My name was mentioned twice.",
"BUSH: He called me a liar.",
"BUSH: Also, he talked about one of my heroes, Ronald Reagan.",
"Ronald Reagan was a liberal maybe in the 1950s. He was a conservative reformed governor for eight years before he became president, and no one should suggest he made an evolution for political purposes. He was a conservative, and he didn't tear down people like Donald Trump is. He tore down the Berlin Wall.",
"BUSH: He was a great guy. [applause]",
"BUSH: That was me.",
"BUSH: Yeah, well, I have got to respond to this.",
"BUSH: Sounds like a good plan.",
"BUSH: Or you could ask me two questions, so I could get two minutes instead of one.",
"BUSH: I think the dysfunction in Washington is really dangerous, that's what I think. And we need a proven leader that has a record of solving problems, someone who doesn't cut and run; someone who could be a commander in chief to unite our country around common purposes; someone who doesn't disparage people.",
"Someone that doesn't brag, for example, that he has been bankrupt four times and it was great, because he could use the legal system.",
"Someone...",
"BUSH: We need someone with a proven record to be able to forge consensus to solve problems.",
"And right now, both Republicans and Democrats in Washington don't get it. People are struggling — 63 percent of Americans can't make a $500 car payment. Most Americans are living paycheck to paycheck. And we need someone has a proven record of growing the economy, reforming the things that are broken.",
"And I'm that person.",
"BUSH: Yeah.",
"Now — but you don't want to say that. Now, let me just say, I've used it, just like the biggest leaders in the country. Let me tell you something — Florida. Florida, he put so much debt on Florida. You know, we keep saying he's a wonderful governor, wonderful governor. He put so much debt on Florida, and he increased spending so much that as soon as he got out of office, Florida crashed.",
"I happened to be there. It's my second home. Florida crashed. He didn't do a good job as governor.",
"BUSH: Here we go.",
"BUSH: Here's the record. Here's the record. We led the nation in job growth seven out of eight years. When I left there was $9 billion of reserves, 35 percent of general revenue. No state came close to that.",
"BUSH: When I — during my time, we were one of the two states to go to AAA bond rating. We didn't go bankrupt like Trump did and call it success when people are laid off, when vendors don't get paid. That's not success.",
"What we did was create an environment where people had a chance to have income. Personal income during my time went up by 4.4 percent.",
"BUSH: The government grew by...",
"BUSH: ... half of that.",
"BUSH: Thank you all very much. The next president is going to be confronted with an unforeseen challenge. That's almost certain. It could be a pandemic, a major natural disaster or an attack on our country. The question for South Carolinians and Americans is who do you want to have sitting behind the big desk in the Oval Office? Because that's the question. It's not the things we're talking about today. It's the great challenge that may happen. I believe I will have a steady hand as commander in chief and president of the United States. I will unite this country around common purposes because I did it as governor of the state of Florida.",
"When I was governor, we had eight hurricanes and four tropical storms in 16 months. Our state was on its back. We recovered far faster than what people thought because we led.",
"We want to challenge rather than cutting and running. That's what we need in Washington, D.C. We need someone with a servant's heart that has a backbone, that isn't going to focus on polls and focus groups. The focus will be on the American people to keep them safe and secure.",
"I ask for your vote next Saturday. [applause]",
