"Bush: It would be that every child, born and unborn, should be protected in law. And every child should be welcomed in life.",
"I believe it's important for our party to maintain our pro-life position. I believe it's important for the next president to recognize good people can disagree on this issue. And so the next president must elevate the issue of life to convince people of the preciousness of life, not only for the young, but for the elderly as well.",
"The next president must lead our country toward policies that will reduce abortions. I will sign a partial-birth abortion ban. I will promote adoption. I will promote abstinence programs in our school systems.",
"The life issue is an important issue for our party. And our party must not abandon our pro-life position, but we must welcome people from different persuasions into our party — or different points of view into our party.",
"Bush: I'm a pro-life candidate, and I've been a pro-life governor. I have set the tone in my state to bring people together. I fought for and signed the first parental notification bill in my state's history. I brought Democrats and Republicans together to value life. This is a bill that will reduce the number of abortions in the state of Texas.",
"I also worked with both Democrats and Republicans to encourage adoptions in my state of Texas.",
"Bush: It's a great question. I'm from a state where over 50 percent of the kindergarten students are Hispanic, and we view each other as Texans. We view us all under the great flag of the Lone Star. Yes, I think so.",
"I would hope our country would get beyond group-thought and would herald each individual, regardless of their heritage and regardless of their background. The ideal world is one in which all of us are viewed as Americans first and foremost.",
"Bush: I was hoping so.",
"Bush: So many half-stories, so little time.",
"I — let's start with education. People who've looked at the state of Texas have consistently said that because we've set high standards, abolished social promotion, got a vibrant charter school movement, have got a public school choice movement, that we're making the best progress in the nation for improvement amongst minority students; that our minority students because of our strong accountability system are making tremendous improvement; that are schools are some — ranked as some of the best in the country, Steve. Our public school system is meeting the challenge.",
"In terms of the budget, I've slowed the rate of growth down. And when you take out population growth and inflation, it's by far the slowest rate of growth ever in my state's history.",
"In terms of tax cuts, I not only led our state to a billion-dollar tax cut in '97, I led our state to a $2 billion tax cut in 1999. Real, meaningful tax cuts.",
"But I guess the way to answer your question is, you know, the people of Texas took a look at my record, the second-biggest state in the Union, a mighty important electoral state for any Republican running for president, and they said, Mr. Governor, we accept your record, and they overwhelmingly voted me back into office. I nearly got 70 percent of the vote.",
"Bush: Steve...",
"Bush: Let me answer, OK.",
"I — you know the people of Texas looked at the real facts. I just explained them to you. Our test scores...",
"Bush: Please don't interrupt me. Let me finish, OK.",
"Bush: The test scores in my state on the NAPE test, which compares state to state, show dramatic improvement. And that's — objective analysis after objective analysis has ranked Texas as one of the best education states in the country. It's not only because of me. It's because of teachers and principles and parents.",
"One reason our — our SAT scores have improved since I've been the governor, you need to get your researchers to do a better job, but unlike many states ...",
"Bush: Unlike many states, we make sure as many kids can take the SAT as possible. We include all kinds of children. We want our children in Texas to take the SAT.",
"Bush: To Alan Keyes. What's it like to be in a mosh pit? [laughter]",
"Bush: On the stage after us will be two Democrats. And if you listen carefully to what they're saying, it sounds like they loved what the Clintons tried to do to health care. The want to federalize health care. They want to — they want the federal government to manage our health care.",
"I know you and the rest of us hear concerns about health care all over New Hampshire. What is your view? Give us your principles on health care for America.",
"That's something that empowered consumers should be able to do. We should voucherize the federal programs, so that individuals will have a stake in making the right judgments about how they get their health care. We need to set up medical savings accounts and other mechanisms that will allow people to build up what they need in order meet their health care needs, by making judicious choices that will give them the power to go to the right doctor, to the right way of providing medical services according to their choice.",
"I think that is the principle that we need. And by the way, that will help to keep costs down.",
"Bureaucracies can't do that job. But as we find in every other sector of our economy, when you empower consumers to make choices, when you give them a range of choices so they can go away from those providers who are not giving them cost-effective provision of services, that's when you're going to get the costs down and when we'll have more medical dollars available to meet problems like long-term health care, which is catastrophic for individual families and which they can't bear on their own.",
"Bush: Do you agree with me that it seems like the administration kind of loves to dangle Medicare reform, kind of get people talking about it, and then turn the tables for political reasons?",
"That is the result we'll get from socialism. And I, frankly, am proud of the Republican Party for having stood together to resist the socialization of medicine in this country. It was the right thing to do. And I think it also helped, by the way, to safeguard the situation that allowed us to continue on the road of prosperous expansion in our economy.",
"Bush: I want to take off where Steve was. I think one of the — what he — what he mentioned was right, and that is our technology is changing so quickly that government programs are often obsolete as the marketplace changes. And I think about my rural Texas where we're going to have two-way satellite technology, broad-width technologies that will enable us to beam information from big cities to rural Texas.",
"And I worry about government funding and government programs that are haphazard and will be obsolete before they're even funded.",
"Bush: No, I don't. I think I agree with the energy secretary that the strategic petroleum reserve is meant for a national wartime emergency.",
"What I think the president ought to do is he ought to get on the phone with the OPEC cartel and say we expect you to open your spigots. One reason why the price is so high is because the price of crude oil has been driven up. OPEC has gotten its supply act together, and it's driving the price, like it did in the past. And the president of the United States must jawbone OPEC members to lower the price.",
"And if in fact there is collusion amongst big oil, he ought to intercede there as well.",
"I used to be in the oil business. I was little oil — really little oil. And so I understand the — I understand what can happen in the marketplace.",
"I think it's very important for us, though, to recognize that our country better become less dependent on foreign crude. That's why I am for the exploration of ANWR. That's why I'm for the exploration of natural gas, which is hemispheric. It's not subject to price.",
"In the meantime, I support the congressional delegation here in New England attempt to fund LIHEAP, which is that low-income heating assistance program.",
"Bush: Well, we've got good relations with a lot of members of OPEC. If the president does his job, the president will earn capital in the Middle East, and the president should have good standing with those nations. It's important for the president to explain, in clear terms, what high energy prices will not only do to our economy, but what high energy prices will do to the world economy.",
"It is in the Saudis' best interest for the price of oil to mellow out. It's not only in our country's best interests. It needs to be explained to them, it's in their best interests.",
"Bush: And I will do so.",
"Bush: Lying under oath is a felony. And all of us on this stage, can make the pledge that we will swear to uphold the laws of the land and the honor and integrity of the office to which we have been elected. That is going to be my pledge for the people of the country. And it's a pledge I'll keep, should I be fortunate enough to earn the presidency.",
"Bush: My buddy.",
"Bush: I'll tell you what I'm going to do. If I'm the president and you're a senator, you can come in my office and you can outline all the different corporate loopholes you think are wrong, and we can pick and choose.",
"But what I'm doing, John, is I'm selling my tax cut plan, without claiming I'm going to close some kind of a corporate loophole. I believe we've got $4 trillion over 10 years; $2 trillion of which will go to save Social Security and pay down debt; $1 trillion available for debt repayment and other programs; and $1 trillion over a 10-year period, for a meaningful, substantial, real tax cut to the people.",
"Your plan uses so-called \"corporate loopholes\" to pay for it; I use cash to pay for it. And if the money stays in Washington — my problem with your plan is that it's going to be spent on bigger government.",
"I believe that cutting the taxes will encourage economic growth. I believe cutting all marginal rates will keep the economy growing. I believe we ought to get rid of the death tax. I believe we ought to get rid of the earnings test on Social Security. I believe we ought to mitigate the marriage penalty. I believe we ought to use this time of prosperity to get money out of Washington, and into the pockets of the taxpayers.",
"Bush: Well, obviously, John, what's needed to happen is a top-down review of the military, so that there's a strategic plan to make sure that we spend properly.",
"I will give you an example of the Crusader, Howitzer program. Looks like it's too heavy. It's not lethal enough.",
"There's going to be a lot of programs that aren't going to fit into the strategic plan for a long-term change of our military.",
"But let me also say to you that it's the president's job to make sure Congress doesn't have the money to spend in the first place. It is the president's job to stand up, express the will of the people, advocate and fight for a meaningful, real tax cut. And that's what I'm going to do.",
"Bush: No, no. Al Gore would have written your plan, Mr. Senator.",
"Bush: To John — education has been a top priority of mine, and I've laid out a comprehensive plan to reform our schools. I believe in local control of schools, high standards and accountability. So part of my plan, John, says the schools that receive federal money to help disadvantaged students, must measure the results. If the students improve, the schools will be rewarded. If not, the parents will be free to make a different choice for their students, their children.",
"I know this works because I've seen dramatic improvement in schools in Texas by setting high standards and results. But two people have openly criticized this plan: you and the vice president. Why don't you think — why don't you think that high expectations will work? Why don't you think this plan will work?",
"Bush: So you support continuing spending federal money on Title I without any measurement, without any knowledge as to whether or not children are learning, without any information whatsoever as to whether or not local authorities have developed high standards and accountability measures. Do you support the current system?",
"Bush: Well, that's what my plan does, John.",
"Bush: No, I beg your pardon, I wrote the plan.",
"Bush: My rebuttal is that we spend a lot of money on disadvantaged children, which I support, but there must be high standards set at the state level. My program says states, John. I am a governor and I understand what federal controls are and I understand federal mandates, which I've opposed.",
"But I believe we owe it to our children to say to the state, You owe — You need to set standards and you need to measure.",
"And if the schools don't rise to the challenge, as opposed to allowing the status quo to reign, we need to free the children. We need to free the parents so they can make...",
"Bush: ... so they can make a different choice.",
"Bush: Yes, I think it's fair. I do. Because I think otherwise there's going to be a stage with 50 people and it's going to be hard for the candidates who are — who have a chance to become the president to be able to make their case.",
"I hope the debates don't turn out to be a kind of Oprah Winfrey-style — who can walk around and who can feel people's pain the best.",
"I hope there're open, honest, straightforward dialogues based upon the philosophy. And I'm confident that any of us up here can take our philosophy and make the case to the American people, compared to who we may be running against.",
"Bush: Well, that's because I wanted my other buddies to be here with us.",
"Bush: I didn't want to exclude anybody.",
"Bush: No, no. I worry about federal judges who will use the bench to interpret the law the way they see fit. I think it's really important to have a president who appoints people who strictly interpret the Constitution and do not use the benches to write law. And I think it's very important for the legislative branch, with the signature of the president, to instruct federal judges as to how they ought to handle a case across jurisdictional lines. There ought to be a certain commonality.",
"So, no, I don't think we ought to be giving federal judges a lot of flexibility on sentencing guidelines.",
"Bush: Not necessarily. I don't know all the federal laws, I'll be frank with you. In my state, we have given — you know, we've given first-time offenders some leniency. And I don't know all the federal law. I just worry about giving federal judges, who've been appointed for life, all kinds of leeway and latitude when it comes to sentencing.",
"Bush: John, I don't appreciate the way you've characterized my position. I'm for reform. I sure am. Wait a — I'm for reform. I'm for getting rid of the corporate soft money and labor union soft money. But I want to make sure big labor — big labor toes the line, too.",
"And that's the difference between what you're for and I'm for. You are not — you are not...",
"Bush: May I finish please, John?",
"Bush: May I finish please?",
"Bush: Please. Thank you.",
"You are — paycheck protection is important to make sure the playing field is level. And you can call all kinds of names you want, but the truth of the matter is, an overwhelming number of your members of the United States Senate, on the Republican side, do not support your plan, because it's not fair. And that's the reason why.",
"Bush: Better ask me that question first.",
"Bush: Well, let's make it five.",
"Bush: I will...",
"Bush: I will appoint judges who strictly interpret the Constitution and who will not use the bench to legislate. And, you know, it's interesting, Ronald Reagan was asked this question in the 1980 debate. You probably remember it.",
"Bush: Same answer. I gave the same answer. And I don't remember you standing up and saying, \"Now, Governor, you gave the wrong answer.\"",
"Bush: I want to thank Senator Gregg and Congressman Bass and all of my friends here in the great state of New Hampshire for your hospitality and for your hard work. Keep at it. Election time is right around the corner.",
"I appreciate the people of this state giving me a chance to talk about my economic tax cut plan, to talk about educational excellence, to talk about rebuilding the military to keep the peace.",
"I want to remind the folks of this state I've got a positive record as the governor of the state of Texas, that I'm a uniter, not a divider. And I intend to lead our country to a better day.",
"Thank you very much, and I'm asking for your vote."
