"Bauer: Sure.",
"Bauer: You know, I have strong feelings on taxes. [laughter] And — but I'm going to resist the temptation to take apart Governor Bush and Steve Forbes' tax plan and explain my own. We'll do that a little later.",
"Bauer: I am. Because I still haven't yet read yours, John.",
"Look, I actually think the question you're asking, at the end of the day, may be more important than our tax plans. Now all of us in the Republican Party do want to lower taxes. That battle has pretty much been won in the Republican Party.",
"What I don't think has been won in the Republican Party is whether we are going to defend traditional conservative values. That's where we overwhelmingly get our vote. Overwhelmingly the people that will put one of us back in the White House will do so because they believe in conservative traditional values.",
"Of course we ought to take pornography off the stage of this country, whether it's children or adults. It exploits women. It exploits children. And I would say to my party, it better find it's voice on things like this, and in opposition to same-sex marriage, and in defense of the sanctity of life, or it won't matter how much we want to cut taxes because the country cannot survive another 10 years of the values meltdown it's in right now. [applause]",
"Bauer: No, absolutely not. Look, this child had a loving mother. That mother died getting this child to this country. She knew that her child needed liberty and freedom — the freedom to worship, the freedom to grow up and make his own decisions about the kind of job he would get, the kind of family he would have, what he would teach his own children about God.",
"It would be an incredible blight on this country, for this shining city on a hill, as the founding fathers called us, to turn that child back to the clutches of Fidel Castro.",
"Bauer: You know, think about the president that we've got — that we've even gotten to the point where there's a chance this child might go back. Just a few weeks ago, this administration released Puerto Rican terrorists from prison so that the president could help his wife get elected to the Senate in New York. The whole weight of the federal government went to allowing these terrorists back out on the street. And now the whole weight of the federal government is arrayed against this little boy seeking liberty. It is a matter of shame, and if this president knows what shame is, he will not send that boy back. [applause]",
"Bauer: Actually, I was a Reagan man.",
"Bauer: Sir, you've already told us everything we need to know about you tonight. [laughter]",
"Bauer: Governor, you just made the case for withdrawing Most Favored Nation status from China.",
"Bauer: Everything that you just said about Cuba applies to China. [applause]",
"Bauer: Governor, one-third of the trade with China is with companies controlled by the People's Liberation Army.",
"Bauer: You know that and I know that. Tell the people rotting in the prisons of China...[laughter]... that there's any difference between Castro's Cuba and communist China. There is none.",
"Bauer: So trade with the People's Liberation Army is OK.",
"Bauer: Sir, they are using that money...",
"Bauer:... for a massive arms build-up that our sons will have to deal with down the road. You can't be tough...",
"Bauer: You can't be tough on China...",
"Bauer: You can't be tough on China...[applause]",
"Bauer: Well, a Middle Eastern settlement is extremely important from the standpoint of the United States and from the standpoint of the world. But I'll tell you what I will not do, and that is do what this administration has done for the last seven years. And that is, browbeat the state of Israel, our most reliable friend and ally, to give up more land for security.",
"We all know what the map looks like. This little sliver of a democratic nation in the middle of the Middle East surrounded by hostile powers much larger than them. And it's the little sliver of a democracy that's being told it's got to trade land for peace.",
"I believe Israel has b   "Bush: What is accurate is that I led my state, in 1997, to the largest tax cut in Texas history. The truth is that I laid out a plan that cut a billion dollars of property taxes.",
"Bush: I brought Republicans together with Democrats. And I signed that tax cut.",
"I then took that record to the people of the state of Texas in the course of the 1998 campaign. In my state, no governor had ever been elected to back-to-back four-year terms. I campaigned on my record. Nearly 70 percent of the Texas voters confirmed that record; 50 percent of the Hispanic population supported me; nearly 30 percent of the African-American community supported me. The people of Texas looked at my record and said, We want him to be the governor again.",
"And in the 1999 legislative session I proposed and was able to enact and sign the largest tax cut in our state's history, replacing the $1 billion record with nearly $2 billion of tax cuts.",
"I am a tax-cutting person, I know how to get it done. I have laid out a plan that is going to cut the rates on everybody in America, a plan that is conservative and a plan that is compassionate.",
"Bush: I think a couple of things. I think one, one thing that makes the American people cynical is negative advertisement on TV. That's one thing that causes people to turn away from politics.",
"And the other thing is is that those of you who follow politics need to look at the results. That's what's important. What were the results?",
"And the results are, people from all walks of life received a substantial tax cut under me as the governor of the state of Texas. And they will do so if I become the president of the United States as well.",
"Bush: Well, the only reason I ask is that he was talking about my plan, and I'd like a chance...",
"Bush: Thank you. I believe everybody ought to get a tax cut. I believe it's important to cut the top rates. I think it's important to drop the 39.6 to 33 percent. I also know it's important to make sure people who are on the outskirts of poverty get a tax cut as well. And my plan does both.",
"I have a plan that takes $2 trillion over the next 10 years and dedicates it to Social Security. My plan has been called risky by voices out of Washington. In my judgment, what's risky is to leave a lot of unspent money in Washington, because guess what's going to happen? It's going to be spent on bigger federal governments.",
"Bush: No, I agree with John McCain, he had the absolute right answer. The president of the United States should not negotiate with terrorists any way, shape or form. He gave a good answer.",
"Bush: I thought for a minute you were going to bring up the Sosa trade. [laughter]",
"Bush: I was — I appreciated Harold Baines' kind gesture.",
"Bush: Listen, I think it's a free — this is a case of a player needs help. And I appreciate the fact that the Atlanta Braves are getting him counseling. But this is a world of — in athletics, this is a world of some young men who make a lot of money who don't — who aren't responsible for their behavior.",
"What I'd like to do, as the president of the United States, is usher in the responsibility era, so that each American, whether you be a baseball player or a — anything, wear the uniform of the United States, are responsible for the actions you take in life; that each of us must understand with certainty that we are responsible for the decisions we make.",
"And it starts, by the way, with having a president who behaves responsibly in the Oval Office. [applause]",
"Bush: Yes.",
"Bush: I think in this case it made sense to do so, and I appreciate what the Atlanta Braves have decided to do. I appreciate that.",
"Bush: Consider the source. [laughter]",
"Bush: If they had said — if she had said a Calvin professor, I'd have been listening. [laughter and applause]",
"Bush: Look, I think — I think that — I don't know the particulars about this particular person. I think the Braves made the right decision, though. I mean, they know the man better than you and I do. The fellow said some incredibly offensive things. He is a public person. And I appreciate them trying to get the man help.",
"I understand in America we can say what we want to say, but that doesn't mean that if the man needs help, he shouldn't get it. And I appreciate their efforts to provide psychological counseling for him.",
"Bush: I do. I agree with my colleagues that the man ought to be brought to the United States, given a whiff of freedom, so he can see how wonderful our country is.",
"I want to say something about Cuba in our hemisphere. There's some folks in our country who believe we ought to trade with Cuba. I don't. I think that would be wrongheaded. I think it'd be a mistake.",
"Capital that goes into Cuba will be used by the Fidel Castro government to prop itself up. There is a commission-type system in Cuba. Dollars invested will be dollars that will end up supporting this totalitarian regime. It's in our best interests for us to promote freedom in the island right off the coast of Florida. It's in our best interest to keep the pressure on Fidel Castro, until he allows free elections, free press and free the prisoners in that island.",
"And for those Americans who believe that trade with Cuba will cause Castro to become less totalitarian, in my judgment, are naive and wrong.",
"Bush: I did not.",
"Bush: Let me answer that. Let me answer that.",
"Bush: May I answer that please?",
"Bush: There is a huge difference, a huge difference between trading with an entrepreneurial class, like that which is growing in China, and allowing a Fidel Castro government to skim capital moneys off the top of capital investment.",
"Bush: There's a huge difference. [crosstalk] Wait a minute...",
"Bush: Gary...",
"Bush: Let me say this: If we turn our back on the entrepreneurial class that has taken wing in China, we're making a huge mistake. If we turn our back on those that have gotten a whiff of freedom, as a result of the marketplace taking hold, we're making a big mistake. [crosstalk] We're making a big mistake — we're making a big...",
"Bush: No, it's not. [crosstalk] I'm talking about the entrepreneurial class that is growing in the country of China.",
"Bush: Only if you're the president...",
"Bush: If I'm the president, I promise you...[crosstalk]",
"Bush: Well, first, it's not the federal government's role to run state police departments.",
"Bush: No one wants racial profiling to take place in any state. The governor of this state doesn't, the governor of my state doesn't. I'm interested in fair justice. I think we ought to hold people accountable if they break the law regardless of the color of their skin.",
"In terms of being a president that says there's no place in racism, it starts with saying there's no place for racism in America. This is a — this is a nation where all people are created equal. It's the great hope of America — they're all equal, we're all God's children. And that's what leadership needs to do, leadership needs to stand up and say — and condemn racism and condemn prejudice and hold people accountable as an individual, not as a group.",
"One of the problems I have with oftentimes what's happening in Washington, D.C., there's too much group thought; there's too much attempt to lump people in groups and pit one group of people against another. And that leads to disharmony, it leads to the balkanization of America. I intend to — I intend to say each individual counts, each individual matters, the America dream belongs to each individual who's willing to work hard to achieve it.",
"Bush: I think it's — I think this is a compassionate nation, and I think we ought to rally other compassionate nations around the world to provide the money to help the folks in Africa. But I agree with what John said — oftentimes we're well intended when it comes to foreign help, but the money never makes it to the people that we're trying to help.",
"And so I think, before we spend a dime, we want to make sure that the people we're trying to help receive the help necessary. But this is a compassionate land and we need to rally the people of compassion in the world to help when there's a terrible tragedy like this in Africa.",
"Bush: I accept the premise. [laughter]",
"Bush: That's the exact same question Mr. Bauer asked me during the last couple of debates.",
"Bush: Four times, right. [laughter]",
"Bush: Yes, I'll answer it. I'm going to pick a vice president who can be the president. I'll pick judges who strictly interpret the Constitution and not use the bench as a legislative — a way to legislate. And I will — I will work to keep the Republican Party pro-life.",
"That's what I'm going to do, Mr. Forbes, and I appreciate your assumption about me being the party nominee. [applause]",
"Bush: I don't know how it can be more clear.",
"Bush: Listen. I don't know how...",
"Bush:... I will have...",
"Bush:... no, you're interrupting. [laughter]",
"I'll have a — I will have a vice president who can become the president. That's the test. I will have a vice president that agrees with my policy. I'm going to have a vice president that likes me. [laughter and applause]",
"I can't be any more clear to you. You may not like the answer, but that's my answer. And that is the right answer to give.",
"Bush: That is not going to get you on my short list. [laughter]",
"Keyes: And since...[laughter]...since it's a proven family tradition, I will consider you for my vice president.",
"Bush: Thank you. Yes. [laughter]",
"Keyes: But I have a question for Gary Bauer, actually. Gary, the other day I asked — I asked Senator McCain about this whole business of the \"don't ask, don't tell\" Clinton policy. And Senator McCain supports that policy. He's given us Clinton-lite on gays in the military and wants us to continue with a policy that undermines the sense of honor in the military; that gives the false message to people that they can lead a lifestyle that is actually against the regulations; and then puts the people who are supposed to enforce that regulation in a position where they're going to encounter resentment, misunderstanding, and confusion when they move to enforce it on the basis of whatever information they have.",
"I think that that sows tremendous seeds of difficulty in our military ranks and it leads to disaster that is felt throughout the ranks. I don't care about the political generals, but I know the people below that level are suffering now in their morale because of this and the seeds of distrust that it sows. Will you join me in my pledge, if I become president, to return to a ban on gays in the military and get rid of this policy that undermines the honor and morale of our military people?",
"Bush: Well, maybe you ought to try McCain out. [laughter and applause]",
"Bush: I haven't asked a question.",
"Bush: Oh, sorry. Sorry you can't ask yourselves. [laughter]",
"Bush: I have to choose John, don't I?",
"Bush: He's the one I'm choosing anyway.",
"Bush: Yes, I think so. The — John, I want to talk to you about an issue in Arizona that I want to hear your opinion on. I think the Republican Party ought to hear it, and I think the country ought to understand what the federal government's doing.",
"As I understand, there's a — the president has proposed a million acres called federal monument — they call it a federal monument.",
"Bush: In essence, what's happened...",
"Bush: Yes. What's happened is the federal government is basically taking a million acres of — and putting it into a — a freeze in the State of Arizona.",
"I know you're concerned about conservation and the environment. But would you comment about — is the attitude in Washington, D.C. today of this administration and how it's handled the lands in the West — and particularly this — this act by the president.",
"Bush: I ask it for a reason.",
"Bush: I ask it for a reason. You know, we disagree on issues...",
"Bush:... but Republicans agree a lot, and this is an important issue.",
"Bush: I'll run positive ads. And I'm darn sure not going to do to candidates what this man did to Bob Dole in 1996.",
"Bush: Well, I can't — listen, I cut taxes as the governor, that's the fact, that is the bottom line. The people of my state know my record and they endorsed it with an election. And yet, if you look at ads, it doesn't say that.",
"And my only problem is, listen, I don't mind debates. I do mind Republicans tearing each other down. The mission is to pick the best person so we can capture the White House in the year 2000. [applause]",
"Bush: In how I keep the oath of office and the oaths I take. My religious convictions need to be reflected in how I live my life.",
"Bush: The state of Texas put to death.",
"Bush: I haven't been wrong in any of the incidences because everybody's had full access to the courts. And I don't believe we've ever executed an innocent person in my state.",
"I support the death penalty because I believe it saves lives. I support the death penalty if we administer the judgment in a sure and swift way that is full of justice. I believe it — I believe it creates a society that says I'm not going to go kill somebody. I believe it protects innocent people to have the death penalty.",
"Bush: Far — listen I'm a lowly sinner. I'm not going to put words in Jesus' mouth.",
"Keyes: Can I...[applause]",
"Now wait a minute, you don't have to. Excuse me.",
"Two things...",
"Bush: I too want to thank the sponsor of this debate. I am most appreciative of the time, able to share with you what's in my heart. I want to thank Senator Abram. I want to thank Governor Engler. I want to thank all my supporters in the state of Michigan. I'm looking forward to bringing my campaign to your state.",
"I'm the one on the stage who's had executive experience when it comes to government. I know how to set agendas. I know how to bring people together to achieve the agendas. Should I govern the president, I'll cut taxes to make sure that our economy continues to grow.",
"But I'll make sure our tax code is fair. That we hear the cries of people who live on the outskirts of poverty. I want to knock down the tollbooth to the middle class.",
"I will rebuild the military to keep the peace. I will focus on public education to make sure every child gets educated and no child is left behind. And I will work to save and strengthen Social Security.",
"During this campaign, I'm going to run a positive campaign, one that reaches out to new faces and new voices in the Republican Party. I want to lift the spirit of America so this great country can achieve any objective that we set our mind to.",
"I'm here to ask for the vote. I want to thank you for listening. And God bless you all.",
"Bush: Then could we ask you a question?",
"Bush: Two things? Two things different from them? How about Martin Luther King's speech, to show the heart of America; and the microchip, to show the entrepreneurial spirit of the country?"
een our only reliable ally. I would stand with them. I would make sure that their security was safe and that that relationship between the two of us prospered. And I would begin to put some pressure on those other countries in the Middle East that rely on us to be their defense, their safety net, that if they want to be our ally, then they need to be friends with Israel, our major ally in the region.",
"Bauer: Well, Tim, as president, I would look at all the priorities facing this country and make a judgment about where we can use that surplus, first to help the American people, and then to help whoever else we can that it's appropriate to help.",
"Bauer: Let me just say — I must say to you that the people of Africa — the suffering people of Africa ultimately will not be bailed out for us — by us, on this or any other thing. They must get governments in Africa that promote economic growth, that treat people as human beings. That is the long-term answer for Africa, not reaching further into the hands of the American taxpayer.",
"Bauer: Four times.",
"Bauer: Not that anybody's counting...",
"Bauer: Listen, Alan, I can tell you what I will do as president, which is in fact to reinstate that ban. Look, this administration began with an argument over open homosexuality in the military. We should have known from the very first weeks of the Clinton administration just how bad things would be by time the eight years were over. We've gone from a 600 ship Navy down to 325 ships, from 18 Army divisions down to 10.",
"We've got 13,000 men and women in the Army on food stamps, because they're not being paid enough to lift them above the poverty level, and what is this administration worried about as we heard the vice president say the other day? He wants the Joint Chiefs of Staff to meet all the demands of the gay rights movement or they won't serve in the Joint Chiefs of Staff under President Gore.",
"Of course we ought to listen to our military officers. And our military officers have told us that homosexuality in the military destroys the spirit of the corps. There is one purpose for the military, that is to prevent a war and if that fails to win a war for the United States, not to be a sociological playground for Bill and Hillary Clinton. Yes, I will reinstate the ban. [applause]",
"Bauer: I'm really disappointed, Governor, that I don't get to ask you a question for the fifth debate in a row. That's strange.",
"Bauer: He's not my problem. You are. [laughter] Steve, I — I...",
"Bauer: Steve, I want to commend you for trying to get that answer out of the governor.",
"Ladies and gentlemen, it is important, the answer to the question. Seven of the current nine Supreme Court justices...",
"Bauer:... were appointed by Republican presidents. Abortion should be over.",
"Bauer: Steve, a year or so ago, here in Michigan, General Motors closed the plant in Flint, Michigan. They said there was a surplus of parts. When I saw the article in \"The Wall Street Journal,\" it seemed pretty matter-of-fact to me. It was a little sad to know that men would be losing their jobs, but there's a surplus of parts, there's a surplus of parts.",
"But then six months later, I was reading through the \"Journal\" again, and I — I saw another little article. General Motors had reopened the plant — but not in Flint, Michigan. In Shanghai, China.",
"I got on a plane and flew to Flint, Michigan. I met with the men there that were going to be losing their jobs. Almost every one of them had been in Vietnam. They had gone there to fight because their government told them that communism was wrong.",
"Now they wondered why the rules had changed. They were losing their jobs here because a nice corporate president thought he would like to make a little bit more at the bottom line by putting the plant in Shanghai, China.",
"Bauer: If I'm president, I will tell the president of General Motors that he's head of an American company.",
"Are you willing to do the same, or are you going to worship at the altar of international trade at all costs?",
"Bauer: Tim, I've gone all over the country and I've met countless young people that are turned off about politics. And so are their parents. They've tuned out. They don't listen to any of us. They don't believe any of us. There's two things we've got to do to get them back. One is to have real debate about real issues, pointing out real differences — on China, on the sanctity of life. There are differences up here.",
"Bauer: But we can do that without engaging in the trash can politics and the character assassination that has marked too much of American politics for too long.",
"Bauer: You know, Tim, I think the American people, unfortunately, are confused about this. They've been told to measure the performance of a government or of a president by their pocketbooks. And quite frankly, even the media sends that same message.",
"But the fact of the matter is that, at the core, almost all of the major issues facing our country are moral. Racial reconciliation. Rebuilding the American family. Preserving marriage as between one man and one woman. Finding another place at the table, this one for our unborn children.",
"Those are all moral questions and ultimately it won't matter how high our stocks are. It will matter how strong our virtue is.",
"Bauer: Ladies and gentlemen, do you ever get up in the morning and open up the newspaper and not recognize your country? Every day, there's more stories — newborn babies thrown into trash cans, kids killing kids, unbelievable racial hatred in spite of everything that we've done to try to bring the races together.",
"For 30 years, America has been remade right in front of your eyes.",
"You go back to the '60s. I remember the first headline when I was in high school: Supreme Court Outlaws School Prayer. We were all just supposed to swallow hard and accept it.",
"In the '70s, we opened up the paper, and suddenly the Court found the right to abort our children in all nine months of the pregnancy — every state law in the nation struck down overnight.",
"Soon you will open up the paper — it's already started in Vermont — the Court will have ruled that men can marry men and women can marry women.",
"Ladies and gentlemen, we must stand up to the crisis in America on our values. I'll lower taxes; probably all of us will. I'll rebuild the military; I think every one of us will. But I don't believe everybody up here is committed to defending reliable standards of right and wrong — rebuilding America as a shining city upon a hill.",
"I will do that as president, and I would be proud to have your support.",
"Bauer: Are you sure you don't want to start at that end, Tim? [laughter]",
"Bauer: The first item that always ought to be put in a time capsule, whatever the century, is the Declaration of Independence, because of the words: \"We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal, endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights, among these the right to liberty and the pursuit of happiness.\""
