"CAIN: Two things. Present a bold plan to grow this economy, which I have put my 9-9-9 plan on the table, and it starts with throwing out the current tax code and putting in the 9-9-9 plan.",
"Secondly, get serious about bringing down the national debt. The only way we're going to do that is, the first year that I'm president and I oversee a fiscal year budget, make sure that revenues equals spending. If we stop adding to the national debt, we can bring it down.",
"So the answer is, we must grow this economy with a bold solution, which is why I have proposed 9-9-9, and at the same time get serious about not creating annual deficits so we can bring down the national debt. That would re-establish confidence in our system, and I believe we could get our credit rating back.",
"CAIN: Wait, wait.",
"CAIN: He mentioned me.",
"CAIN: He mentioned me, and you didn't give me an opportunity to respond.",
"CAIN: I thank you very much. 9-9-9 will pass, and it is not the price of a pizza, because it has been well-studied and well-developed. It starts with, unlike your proposals, throwing out the current tax code. Continuing to pivot off the current tax code is not going to boost this economy. This is why we developed 9-9-9, 9 percent corporate business flat tax, 9 percent personal income flat tax, and a 9 percent national sales tax. And it will pass, Senator, because the American people want it to pass.",
"CAIN: My advisers come from the American people. Now, I will have some experts. One of my experts that helped me to develop this is a gentleman by the name of Rich Lowery out of Cleveland, Ohio. He is an economist, and he has worked in the business of wealth creation most of his career.",
"I also have a number of other well-recognized economists that helped me to develop this 9-9-9 plan. It didn't come off a pizza box, no. It was well-studied and well-developed, because it will replace the corporate income tax, the personal income tax, the capital gains tax, the death tax, and most importantly, the payroll tax.",
"CAIN: Rich Lowery out of Cleveland, Texas, is one of the economists that I have used. He's been my lead economist on helping to develop this.",
"CAIN: Conceptually I made that statement based upon the concept, but I happen to agree with Governor Romney. The way it was administered is where it got off-track. They were discretionary in which institutions they were going to save, rather than apply it equitably, which is what most of us thought was going to be done. The implementation of it is where they got off-track. I didn't agree with it. I don't think Governor Romney agreed with it. So did a lot of us. The implementation was at fault.",
"CAIN: It's called the 9-9-9 plan.",
"[applause]",
"It imposes a 9 percent business flat tax, a 9 percent personal flat tax, and a 9 percent national sales tax.",
"[end video clip]",
"CAIN: The problem with that analysis is that it is incorrect.",
"[laughter]",
"[applause]",
"CAIN: The reason it is incorrect is because they start with the assumptions that we don't make. Remember, 999 plan throws out the current tax code. And it starts with three simple economic driving principles: production drives the economy, risk-taking drives growth, and we need sound money, measurements must be dependable.",
"Now what 999 does, it expands the base. When you expand the base, we can arrive at the lowest possible rate which is 999. The difference between the 999 plan and the other plans that are being proposed is that they pivot off of the existing tax code.",
"We have had an outside firm, independent firm dynamically score it. And so our numbers will make it revenue neutral.",
"CAIN: Pizza, I don't buy beer.",
"[laughter]",
"CAIN: You have to start with the biggest tax cut a lot of Americans pay, which is the payroll tax, 15.3 percent. That goes to 9 percent. That is a 6 percentage point difference. And the prices will not go up. So they have got a 6 percentage point difference to apply to the national sales tax piece of that, and in doing so, they have the flexibility to decide on how much they want to spend it on new goods, how much they want to spend it on used goods. Because there is no tax on used goods.",
"CAIN: That's right.",
"CAIN: Therein lies the difference between me, the non- politician, and all of the politicians. They want to pass what they think they can get passed rather than what we need, which is a bold solution. 9-9-9 is bold, and the American people want a bold solution, not just what's going to kick the can down the table -- down the road.",
"CAIN: Yes. One of my guiding principles has been and will always be, surround yourself with good people. The 999 plan that I have proposed is simple, transparent, efficient, fair, and neutral.",
"My question is to Governor Romney. Can you name all 59 points in your 160-page plan, and does it satisfy that criteria of being simple, transparent, efficient, fair, and neutral?",
"[laughter]",
"[applause]",
"CAIN: So, no, it is not simple, is what you are saying?",
"CAIN: First of all, you have misquoted you. I did not call you or any of your people ignorant. I don't know where that came from.",
"CAIN: All right. Now, so you've got to be careful of the stuff that you get off the Internet, because that's just not something that I have said.",
"Secondly, when I served on the board of the Federal Reserve in the 1990s, we didn't do any of the things that this Federal Reserve is doing. I don't agree with the actions of this Federal Reserve. I don't agree with the actions that have been undertaken by Ben Bernanke. We didn't have a $14 trillion national debt to prop up with some of the actions that they're taking.",
"And I have also said, to be precise, I do not object to the Federal Reserve being audited. I simply said, if someone wants to initiate that action, go right ahead. It doesn't bother me.",
"So you -- I've been misrepresented in that regard. I don't have a problem with the Federal Reserve being audited. It's simply not my top priority. My top priority is 9-9-9, jobs, jobs, jobs.",
"[applause]",
"CAIN: There are three deterrents to the...",
"CAIN: There are three deterrents to this nightmare scenario you described in terms of how bad things are going to be, because we are trying to fix the real problem.",
"The first deterrent is that I'm going to ask the United States Congress to include a two-thirds majority vote before they can raise the 999 tax. The second deterrent, the second deterrent is the fact that because it is visible, simple, and transparent, the American people are going to be the ones to hold Congress's feet to the fire.",
"The third return is that I will be president and I won't sign anything that raises the 999.",
"CAIN: Alan Greenspan.",
"CAIN: Because that's when I served on the board of the Federal Reserve in the early 1990s. And the way Alan Greenspan oversaw the Fed and the way he coordinated with all of the Federal Reserve banks, I think that it worked fine back in the early 1990s.",
"Now, on that same point, I have already identified two candidates -- which I cannot give their names -- to replace Mr. Bernanke, in anticipation of having that responsibility.",
"We must narrow the mission of the Fed first. I don't believe in ending the Fed. I believe we can fix the Fed by getting their mission refocused on monetary price stability. And I have candidates in mind that will help us do that.",
"CAIN: Yes, I have two candidates waiting in the wings...",
"CAIN: ... to take that job. I've got to keep them confidential.",
"CAIN: In addition to what Governor Romney said, I agree, repeal Dodd-Frank. But also, get rid of the capital gains tax. That's a big wall between people with ideas and people with money. And we know which plan gets rid of the capital gains tax.",
"[laughter]",
"CAIN: No, the question was -- that response was directed at the people that are protesting on Wall Street, not that 14 million people who are out of work for no reason of their own other than this economy is not growing, not the millions of people that are under-unemployed.",
"That statement was not directed at them. It was specifically directed at the people who are protesting on Wall Street. And I also said that they have basically targeted the wrong target. It should be against the failed policies of this administration, not Wall Street is where they should be protesting.",
"CAIN: I can connect with people's pain because I was po' before I was poor. My dad worked three jobs. I understand what that means. But more importantly, with my career and with my records, I understand that leaders are supposed to make sure we're working on the right problems, we're assigning the right priority.",
"Surround yourself with the right people, which will allow you to put together the right plans, and, yes, sometimes those plans will be bold plans, because this economy is on life support. We don't need to trim around the edges. We need a bold plan."
