"CHRISTIE: Well, first I want to share a story with you that relates to your question. I was in New Hampshire last week, and a woman approached me after the town hall meeting and she said to me, \"Governor, I'm really concerned.\"",
"I said, \"What are your concerns?\"",
"And, she said, \"I don't quite how to describe it,\" she said. \"But, every month when my bills come in, I feel this awful anxiety in the pit of my stomach that I'm not going to have enough to pay them that month.\"",
"There are tens of millions of Americans living that way after the worst recovery from an economic recession since World War II. And, let's be clear, if we do not change course, if we follow the President's lead, and that's exactly what Secretary Clinton will do, we're going to be in the same circumstance — with government picking the winners and losers.",
"So, let me be clear about what we'll do. First, Make the tax code fairer, flatter, and simplier. Get rid of all the special interest deductions. You know, the American people feel like the tax code is rigged for the rich, and you know why they feel that way? Because it is.",
"We'll get rid of all those special interest deductions except for the home mortgage interest deduction, and the charitable contribution deduction. Everyone will get lower rates, keep more of their own money, be able to file their tax returns in 15 minutes, and, by the way, the good thing, I'll be able to fire a whole bunch of IRS agents once we do that. [applause]",
"And, in addition, we need to get the government off of our backs. Dodd-Frank, all the different regulations, 81,000 pages of new regulation by this administration just last year — it is suffocating small business, it is suffocating the folks who are trying to make a living. I will do what I did in New Jersey...[bell ringing]...lift if off their backs. [applause]",
"CHRISTIE: Yes, sure. [laughter]",
"If anybody believes the stuff they heard from that Democratic debate a few weeks ago, there's nothing for free. What they forgot to tell was that they're going to raise your tax rates to 70 or 80 percent in order to provide all of that stuff.",
"But let me ask the folks at home one very simple question, do you want to give Washington more control over your life? Do you think they're doing such a great job that now let's have them control what our corporations pay their employees? Let's have them control every aspect of our economy?",
"Is Washington doing that good a job for you right now? And the fact is that if you listen to Hillary Clinton, she has made it very clear, she believes that she can make decisions for you better than you can make them for yourself.",
"She believes that Washington, D.C., should pick the winners and losers in our economy, and in our life. And here's what I believe as a Republican, I believe the greatness of America is not in its government.",
"The greatness of America is in the American people. And what we need to do is get the government the hell out of the way and let the American people win once again. [cheering and applause]",
"CHRISTIE: First off, let me, let me just say this in response to this back and forth. For the people who are out there right now, I want to guarantee you one thing real clearly. If you think that Mike Huckabee won't be the kind of President who will cut back spending, or Chris Christie, or John Kasich, wait 'til you see what Hillary Clinton will do to this country and how she will drown us in debt. She is the real adversary tonight and we'd better stay focused as Republicans on her.",
"Now I've forward, I put forward an entitlement reform plan.",
"We spend 71 cents of every dollar in America on entitlements and debt service, and if — you know, Willy Sutton used to say, when they asked him why he robbed banks, he said that's 'cause that's where the money is, OK?",
"And where the money is in the federal government are these entitlement programs and debt service.",
"What I've said is we need to get a hold of that. We cannot continue to go down the $19 trillion in debt.",
"So our plan will save over $1 trillion over the next 10 years and make sure that Social Security and Medicare are there for those who truly need it and also make sure that we have money to be able to reduce taxes and spend on the things we need to spend.",
"I will also, on my first day as — as president, sign a executive order that says no more regulation for the next 120 days by any government agency or department. We are drowning in regulations. Stop and then we'll go out there and we'll cut and reduce regulation that small business owners across this country want us to do.",
"You'll grow the economy then. More money will come into the system and we'll get more closer to balance.",
"But the bottom line is, believe me, Hillary Clinton's coming for your wallet, everybody. Don't worry about Huckabee or Jindal, worry about her. [applause]",
"CHRISTIE: Well, let's start with this, remember why we're in the position we're in with China, because an absolutely weak and feckless foreign policy that was engineered by Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. That's why we're in the position we're in...[applause]...because the Chinese...[applause]...the Chinese don't take us seriously and why should they?",
"Why should they?",
"They hacked into the American government's personnel file and took millions of records in cyberwarfare against this country. I'm one of the victims of that hack. They took my Social Security number, my fingerprints as a former United States attorney that was on file in there.",
"And what has this president done?",
"Not one thing.",
"Let me be really clear about what I would do.",
"If the Chinese commit cyberwarfare against us, they are going to see cyberwarfare like they have never seen before. And that is a closed society in China...[applause]...where they're hiding information from their own people. The information we take, we'll make sure all the Chinese people see it. Then they'll have some real fun in Beijing when we start showing them how they're spending their money in China. [applause]",
"And one last thing.",
"One last thing. I will tell you this, they're building those artificial islands in the South China Sea and the president won't — up until recently, wouldn't sail a ship within 12 miles or fly a plane over it. I'll tell you this, the first thing I'll do with the Chinese is I'll throw — I'll fly Air Force One over those islands. They'll know we mean business. [applause]",
"CHRISTIE: I'll tell you, Gerry, it's interesting, if you go to New Jersey, they'll call me lots of different things. A liberal is not one of them. Um, and...[laughter]...I would say this. I have great respect for Bobby's record in Louisiana. I think he's been a wonderful governor and I think he's provided outstanding leadership for that state and I respect him for what he's done.",
"And I think that all of us deserve that same level of respect.",
"And my point is this. You know, the differences between me and Bobby Jindal, we can talk about those, and obviously, Bobby wants to spent a lot of time tonight talking about that.",
"I'll tell you what I want to talk about. I want to talk about what's going to happen to this country if we have another four years of Barack Obama's policies.",
"And by the way, it will be even worse, because Hillary Clinton is running so far to the left to treaty to catch up to her socialist opponent, Bernie Sanders, it's hard to even see her anymore.",
"The fact is — the fact is that we'd better be focused on it. And I'll tell you what I'll bring to the table, the fact that I've won in a blue state, that I've won in a state that has 750,000 more Democrats than Republicans...[applause]...that I won in a state for reelection after governing as a pro-life conservative...[buzzer noise]...and got 61 percent of the vote. That's the person you want on the stage prosecuting the case against Hillary Clinton. [applause]",
"CHRISTIE: I don't...",
"CHRISTIE: ..Let me...",
"CHRISTIE: ...Let me just...",
"CHRISTIE: ...Sure. [applause]",
"It's interesting. I complimented Bobby, imagine how much time he'd want if I actually criticized him. [laughter]",
"You know, the fact is, he's done — done a nice job down in Louisiana, and I don't have any problem with the job he's done. I've cut spending $2 billion dollars, except for our pension and health care in New Jersey, which was driven predominantly by Obamacare. We have reduce the number of employees we have on the state payroll by 15%, but, you know what? The people out there don't care about any of that.",
"You know what they care about? They care about who's going to be able to beat Hillary Clinton...[bell ringing]...Who's going to keep their eye on the ball? I'm going to keep my eye on the ball.",
"[crosstalk]",
"CHRISTIE: Yeah, listen. We stopped Obamacare in New Jersey because we refused to participate in the federal exchange. But, here's the bigger issue. What do you think's going to happen when Hillary Clinton's elected president of the United States? The woman who tried to impose healthcare on this country over 20 years ago? And, she was stopped then by a strong group of republicans, and an American public that said, \"No, thank you.\"",
"What she will do — what she will do is move us towards a single payer system. She will completely nationalize the federal health care system. That's what she wanted to do 20 years ago, and I guarantee you that's what she'll do if you give her the keys to the White House one more time.",
"The fact is we need someone who knows how to beat democrats, who knows how to beat democrats in a democratic area. I've done it twice as governor of New Jersey, and Hillary Clinton doesn't want one minute on that stage with me next September when I'm debating her, and prosecuting her for her vision for America...",
"CHRISTIE: I'll continue in the pattern and just say...[laughter]",
"And just say this to everybody, since it seems to be an open question. [laughter]",
"I'll tell you the thing that disturbs me the most about what's going on with the Democratic Party in Washington, that they're not standing behind our police officers across this country. [cheering and applause]",
"That they're allowing lawlessness...[cheering and applause] That they're allowing lawlessness to reign in this country. I spent seven years of my life in law enforcement, here's what every law enforcement, 700,000, should know tonight. When President Christie is in the Oval Office, I'll have your back. [cheering and applause]",
"CHRISTIE: Yes. You know, our tax plan puts forward a highest rate of 28 percent for those who are doing the most and making the most in this country and 8 percent on the low end.",
"And I agree with Senator Santorum, we get rid of all of the deductions and loopholes, except for the home mortgage interest deduction and the charitable contribution deduction. That means getting rid of the state and local income tax deduction, as well, because that will put more pressure on governors and on local officials not to keep raising those taxes, saying we can deduct them.",
"And so ours will be 28 on the high end, 8 on the low end.",
"And I will tell you one other thing. Americans for Tax Reform came out with a report six weeks ago and said I vetoed more tax increases than any governor in American history. I will do exactly the same thing as president of the United States. [applause]",
"CHRISTIE: Gerry, this has been the most political Federal Reserve I've seen in my lifetime. Now, when they first cut interest rates during the economic recession and the crisis, that was the right thing to do. But they've kept those interest rates artificially low for one reason, and one reason only. Because they're trying to politically support Barack Obama and his agenda. And it's been wrong.",
"And what it's done, in an administration where the President has talked about income inequality, he's had more income inequality in this administration than any previous administration. The middle class is doing worse than it's ever done before. And the investor class, the wealthy, are doing even better because of this cheap money from the Fed. And here's the worst part, we had one and a half percent GDP growth last quarter. If we slide back towards a recession, you cannot lower interest rates below zero. Where are we going to go if we need help if the economy slides back into recession?",
"And with this government- controlled economy that Barack Obama, we're moving right towards it.",
"The Fed should be audited and the Fed should stop playing politics with our money supply. That's what they've done. It's been the wrong thing to do. It's hurting the American economy. And...[applause]...let me...[applause]...let me add one other thing on this.",
"Be very aware now, because what Hillary Clinton is talking about doing, if she's president of the United States, is to make sure that the government gets even more involved in the economy, even more involved in making choices for everybody. You do not want that to happen. You need someone who's going to stand up on that stage and prosecute the case against her and prosecute it strong. [buzzer noise] That's what I'll do. [applause]",
"CHRISTIE: The way to reconnect Americans to the men and women in uniform is to first, and foremost, give them a Commander in Chief who respects the military, and respects everyone who wears the uniform. [cheering and applause]",
"Starts at the top there...[cheering and applause]",
"And Secretary Clinton says, there's no crisis at the V.A.. That send a long, and hard message to our veterans that she doesn't get it, and she doesn't respect their service.",
"When the President of the United States doesn't back up law enforcement officers in uniform, he loses the moral authority to any man or woman who is uniform.",
"I spent seven years in law enforcement...[bell ringing]...I respect these folks, and I will do so as Commander in Chief of the military.",
"CHRISTIE: I want to tell the American people who are watching tonight the truth. I saw the most disgraceful thing I've seen in this entire campaign a few weeks ago. Hillary Clinton was asked the enemy she's most proud of, and she said, \"Republicans\".",
"In a world where we have Al-Qaeda, and ISIS, the mullahs in Iran, and Vladimir Putin — the woman who asks to run and represent all of the United States says that her greatest enemies are people like you in this audience, and us here. I will tell you one thing, and write this down, when you elect me President of the United States, I will go to Washington not only to fight the fights that need fighting, not only to say what I mean, and mean what I say, but to bring this entire country together for a better future for our children and grandchildren. [applause]"
