"CLINTON: I will institute those very same approaches.",
"You can't do it in a year. It'll take time. But the economy will grow again when we start acting fiscally responsible. And then we can save money in the government by cutting out private contractors, closing loopholes, getting the health care system to be more efficient.",
"We'll do all of this at the same time, but the results will take awhile for us to actually see.",
"CLINTON: Well, I think it's important that we recognize how people feel in Iowa and across America. They feel as though they're standing at on a trap door. They are one pink slip, one missed mortgage payment, one medical diagnosis away from falling through.",
"I want to restore the tax rates that we had in the '90s. That means raising taxes on corporations and wealthy individuals. I want to keep the middle class tax cuts. And I want to start making changes that will actually save us money -- save us money in our Medicare budget, save us money for the average American.",
"You know, during the '90s the typical Iowan family's income rose $7,000. We can get back to fiscal responsibility and economic growth again.",
"CLINTON: Well, it is a problem. It's a particular problem with Medicare, where we have a very immediate set of challenges. It's a longer-term problem with Social Security. We have to deal with both.",
"Part of that is getting back to fiscal responsibility. Part of it is reforming government programs.",
"You know, Medicare is especially vulnerable because the costs are going up so quickly. That's why we do need to give Medicare the right to negotiate for lower drug prices with the drug companies.",
"That's why we need to rein in the excess payments to the HMOs. They're getting paid $1,000 more per patient than what your doctor would get just being on a personal relationship with you.",
"CLINTON: We've got to have a health care reform like the one that I have proposed, the American Health Choices Plan, that will bring costs down. I have very aggressive cost-reduction measures. That will help Medicare.",
"And with respect to Social Security, I think that the best way we're going to deal with the long-term challenges is when I'm president to convene a bipartisan commission, because Republicans and Democrats are going to have to agree to make the changes that are necessary.",
"CLINTON: Well, it should be changed.",
"You know, I think it's important for us to look at the entire context here. You know, you have winners and losers from trade right here in Iowa: people who are gaining because we're exporting and people who, John has rightly pointed out, have lost their jobs.",
"I want to be a president who focuses on smart, pro-American trade.",
"CLINTON: I will review every trade agreement. I'm going to ask for revisions that I think will actually benefit our country, particularly our workers, our exporters.",
"And I'm going to go to the international community and get the kind of enforceable agreements and standards on labor and environment that we have been seeking as Democrats.",
"Because we need to make it clear to the rest of the world that we are an open society, we believe in trade, but we don't want to be the trade patsies of the world. We want to have an equivocal (sic), balanced relationship.",
"And that's what I will do as president. And NAFTA will be part of that review, to try to reform and improve it.",
"CLINTON: Well, I think it's imperative that we address this issue. And I think your question was, \"Well, will how we do it effect the average American?\"",
"Yes, it will. That's part of what we're going to have to tell people.",
"CLINTON: I advocate a cap-and-trade system. What I want to do with the auction of pollution permits is to take a lot of that money and invest it in new technologies, new ways of getting to our objectives that I've outlined in my energy plan.",
"I want to use some of it, though, to cushion the costs that will come onto the American consumer.",
"But it's not just enough to have an energy plan, not just enough to attack global warming. We've got to enlist the American people the way we did in a previous generation for the Apollo program.",
"As a little girl, I remember being thrilled about that and feeling that there was something I could do. My 5th grade teacher said it was to study math and science, but it gave me an idea of actually contributing to my country.",
"This has to call for a new form of American patriotism. So when people, particularly on the other side of the aisle, talk about how we will wreck the economy and impose all of these costs, that is what is happening right now.",
"We cannot sustain the current energy profile in this country. That's why we have to act. And we will act in a way that brings the country together and lifts us up and gives us a feeling that we are, once again, reaching for the stars, only we're going to do it right here on Earth.",
"CLINTON: Carolyn, do you want to ask us to raise our hands about global warming?",
"CLINTON: It didn't get a very good response from Republicans yesterday.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"CLINTON: But we all want to be on record.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"We believe in it.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"We think it's a real problem.",
"CLINTON: Well, I think you're referring to the Lugar-Lautenberg bill. And I have been following Senator Harkin's lead on what needs to be done with the farm bill.",
"CLINTON: So I would have voted against that and then voted as I did today for the limit on subsidies.",
"But this really goes beyond a particular amendment. There's so much that we could do that would really help family farmers and help rural development. I've got a dozen or so of my family farmers from New York traveling around Iowa today, talking to family farmers about what I've been trying to do to open up more markets, to give more support, to see rural economic development more broadly.",
"So we do need a farm bill, and Tom Harkin's been working like a Trojan to get done. And he's making progress but he keeps getting beaten back all the time on conservation, on environment stewardship, on subsidy limits.",
"And, when I'm president, we're going to finally make these changes. Because I believe that if we don't, we're going to see, increasingly, our family farmers as an endangered species. That's not good for any of us.",
"So I'm going to do everything that I can to get to a point where truly have a farm policy for family farmers.",
"CLINTON: Everywhere I go across Iowa, I'm impressed by the people I meet and touched by the stories they tell me, especially the first-time caucus-goers. And every one wants change.",
"Well, everybody on this stage has an idea about how to get change. Some believe you get change by demanding it. Some believe you get it by hoping for it.",
"I believe you get it by working hard for change. That's what I've done my entire life. That's what I will do as president.",
"I will end the war in Iraq and bring our sons and daughters home. I will get quality, affordable health care for every single American. And will not rest until every child has a chance to live up to his or her God-given potential.",
"So I hope you will go caucus for me on January 3rd. Stand up for me and I'll stand up for you during this campaign and when I'm in the White House.",
"CLINTON: I do, because I've worked on behalf of education reform for a very long time, and I know that the president has a certain bully pulpit that can be used on behalf of education, to do exactly what Chris and Barack and others have said.",
"CLINTON: I'm privileged, you know, to have a family that supported me in education. My daughter's here today. Obviously, Bill and I were incredibly focused on her education.",
"So the federal government only pays 10 percent of the cost of public education. Let's use those dollars strategically. Let's do what we've said we were going to do.",
"How about funding special education, which we never have to the extent that we promised, putting a lot of burdens on states and local districts?",
"How about fully funding whatever we ask the local communities to do?",
"So I want to have a very holistic view of this, because if you go into a classroom today, it doesn't look like the 21st century in most instances, it looks very familiar to me, who was last in a classroom decades ago.",
"We've got to bring it in to the 21st century. And I will use both the bully pulpit and legislative and executive efforts to do that.",
"CLINTON: Well, I'm going to be busy because I know how important it is to get started and get started quickly.",
"So I will begin to end the war in Iraq and bring all of our troops home. I will send bipartisan emissaries around the world with a very simple message: The era of cowboy diplomacy is over.",
"We're going to start working together to try to find common ground wherever possible. I will review every executive order, rescind those that undermine the Constitution and betray the rule of law, and issue some, like, for example, not interfering with science and ending Bush's war on science.",
"I'll ask the Congress to send me everything that Bush vetoed, like stem cell research and the Children's Health Insurance Program, and begin to prepare my legislative and budget proposals for the Congress, because you have to move quickly in order to get off to a good start, and that's what I intend to do.",
"CLINTON: Well, I learned a lot from that experience. And, clearly, one of the principal lessons is that you have to have a very strong communication strategy. And we didn't do that.",
"And I have certainly learned from that during the remaining years in the White House when I helped to create the children's health insurance program and did a lot of other work with the Clinton administration and, of course, now in the Senate.",
"CLINTON: I want to have an open and transparent government. I have put forth very specific plans for how I would reform the government, put as much as we can on the Internet.",
"Now we've got this tool, let's use it. Let's have as much sunlight as we possibly can gather.",
"Let's also make sure that we have an administration that works with the Congress instead of stonewalling and denying legitimate requests for information and witness testimony and all the rest that this administration, unfortunately, has done.",
"I think it's also very important that we end the revolving door of lobbyists, that we move toward public financing. I've signed on to Russ Feingold's bill because I think it is the best piece of legislation to try to make those changes.",
"So I'm very committed to open, transparent government. And I've learned a lot and I think I can apply those lessons.",
"CLINTON: Here, here!",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"CLINTON: What are you laughing at?",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"CLINTON: I would use them the way presidents before this president used them. They were used to clarify the law to perhaps make it more coherent with other laws that have been passed.",
"And along came President Bush. He's used them as essentially a from of veto. He did it through a piece of legislation I passed, where it was pretty simple. I said: If you're going to have a FEMA director, it should be somebody with experience handling emergencies.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"I know. Who would think that it would be a complicated issue And we actually had to pass it through the Congress. And when George Bush signed the bill it was part of, he specifically used a signing statement to say, \"I don't have to follow that, unless I choose to.\"",
"So let's quit with all of the perversion of the Constitution and the role of law. Let's get back to what presidents did in both parties and, hopefully, remove the legacy of George W. Bush.",
"CLINTON: Well, my New Years' resolution is multi-part, as you might guess. You know, I have a lot of things that I think about resolving. And, you know, there are personal sides to it -- obviously, spending time with my family, trying to do what some of my colleagues do religiously, and that's exercise.",
"But I'm also resolved to do the very best job I can in this campaign, to rebuild the optimism and confidence of the American people, to run a campaign that the Democrats can be proud of and that independents and Republicans can support, and then to go into the White House with the country behind me, and ready to serve.",
"CLINTON: Well, I want to thank the people of Iowa, because it's been a wonderful experience for me. I've eaten my way across the state.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"Had a great time at the state fair. I've met so many wonderful people.",
"And I think the intimacy, the personal connection, the relationship building that I've experienced over this last year has just been extraordinary for me.",
"CLINTON: And I will never forget the people of Iowa. And I hope that I will be a good president for those people who believed in me."
