"CLINTON: Well, let me...",
"CLINTON: ...let me just say...",
"CLINTON: ...let me...let me say...",
"CLINTON: Dana, you know — I love being in Brooklyn. [cheering and applause]",
"Dana, let me add here that there are two ways to at this under Dodd-Frank, which is after all the law we passed under President Obama, and I'm proud that Barney Frank, one of the authors, has endorsed me because what I have said continuously is, yes, sometimes the government may have to order certain actions. Sometime the government can permit the institution themselves to take those actions. That has to be the judgement of the regulators.",
"But, there's another element to this. I believe strongly that executives of any of these organizations should be financially penalized if there is a settlement. [applause]",
"They should have to pay up through compensation or bonuses because we have to go after not just the big giant institution, we have got to go after the people who are making the decisions in the institutions.",
"CLINTON: And hold them accountable as well. [applause]",
"CLINTON: Well, you can tell, Dana, he cannot come up with any example, because there is no example. [applause]",
"It is important — it's always important. It may be inconvenient, but it's always important to get the facts straight. I stood up against the behaviors of the banks when I was a senator.",
"I called them out on their mortgage behavior. I also was very willing to speak out against some of the special privileges they had under the tax code. When I went to the secretary of state office, the president — President Obama led the effort to pass the Dodd-Frank bill.",
"That is the law. Now, this is our ninth debate. In the prior eight debates, I have said, we have a law. You don't just say, we're upset about this. I'm upset about it. You don't just say, go break them up. You have a law, because we are a nation of laws.",
"CLINTON: So I support Dodd-Frank, but I have consistently said that's not enough. We've got to include the shadow banking sector.",
"CLINTON: You know, first of all — first of all, there isn't an issue. When I was in public service serving as the senator from New York, I did stand up to the banks. I did make it clear that their behavior would not be excused.",
"I'm the only one on this stage who did not vote to deregulate swaps and derivatives, as Senator Sanders did, which led to a lot of the problems that we had with Lehman Brothers.",
"Now, if you're going to look at the problems that actually caused the Great Recession, you've got to look at the whole picture. It was a giant insurance company, AIG. It was an investment bank, Lehman Brothers. It was mortgage companies like Countrywide.",
"I'm not saying that Senator Sanders did something untoward when he voted to deregulate swaps and derivatives...",
"CLINTON: ... but the fact is he did.",
"And that contributed to the collapse of Lehman Brothers and started the cascade... [applause]",
"[crosstalk]",
"CLINTON: I have said, look, there are certain — there are certain expectations when you run for president. This is a new one. And I've said, if everybody agrees to do it — because there are speeches for money on the other side. I know that.",
"But I will tell you this, there is — there is a long-standing expectation that everybody running release their tax returns, and you can go — you can go to my website and see eight years of tax returns. And I've released 30 years of tax returns. And I think every candidate, including Senator Sanders and Donald Trump, should do the same. [applause]",
"CLINTON: Right.",
"CLINTON: You know, let's set the same standard for everybody. When everybody does it, OK, I will do it, but let's set and expect the same standard on tax returns. Everybody does it, and then we move forward.",
"CLINTON: But what I have also said is that we've got to be smart about it, just the way Governor Cuomo was here in New York. If you look at it, we moved more quickly to $15 in New York City, more deliberately toward $12, $12.50 upstate then to $15. That is exactly my position. It's a model for the nation and that's what I will do as president.",
"CLINTON: You know, wait a minute...",
"CLINTON: ...wait a minute.",
"CLINTON: ...wait, wait...",
"CLINTON: Come on, I have stood on the debate stage...",
"CLINTON: ...with Senator Sanders eight...[crosstalk]...times.",
"CLINTON: I have said the...",
"CLINTON: Exact same thing.",
"CLINTON: OK. [applause]",
"CLINTON: Thank you. Thank you very much.",
"CLINTON: I put it out...",
"CLINTON: Well, I believe that the law that Senator Sanders voted for that I voted against, giving this special protection to gun manufacturers and to dealers, is an absolute abdication of responsibility on the part of those who voted for it.",
"CLINTON: Well, look, I think that, as Senator Sanders said about what I said, I will say about what he said. I think that we recognize that we have a set of problems that we cannot ignore and we must address. And that is why I have been promoting for my entire adult life, I think, the idea of investing early in kids, early childhood education, universal pre-K, like what Mayor de Blasio brought to New York. We have got to help more kids get off to a good start. That's why I want a good teacher in a good school for every child, regardless of the ZIP Code that child lives in...",
"CLINTON: ... and to be really focused on how we build ladders of opportunity and tear down these barriers that stand in the way of people getting ahead.",
"CLINTON: You know, I have laid out a set of actions that build on what President Obama was able to accomplish, building on the clean power plan, which is currently under attack by fossil fuels and the right in the Supreme Court, which is one of the reasons why we need to get the Supreme Court justice that President Obama has nominated to be confirmed so that we can actually continue to make progress.",
"I don't take a back seat to your legislation that you've introduced that you haven't been able to get passed. I want to do what we can do to actually make progress in dealing with the crisis. That's exactly what I have proposed.",
"CLINTON: And my approach I think is going to get us there faster without tying us up into political knots with a Congress that still would not support what you are proposing.",
"LOUIS: Senator Sanders, you've said that climate change is the greatest change to our nation's security.",
"CLINTON: We went to the United Nations — yes, he did. We went to the United Nations Security Council. We got support from the Security Council. And we then supported the efforts of our European and Arab allies and partners.",
"This was a request made to our government by the Europeans and by the Arabs because of their great fear of what chaos in Syria would do to them. And if you want to know what chaos does, not just to the people inside but the people on the borders, look at Syria.",
"Nobody stood up to Assad and removed him, and we have had a far greater disaster in Syria than we are currently dealing with right now in Libya. [applause]",
"[crosstalk]",
"CLINTON: Well, that isn't...",
"CLINTON: Well, I think Senator Sanders has just reinforced my point. Yes, when I was secretary of state I did urge, along with the Department of Defense and the CIA that we seek out, vet, and train, and arm Syrian opposition figures so that they could defend themselves against Assad.",
"The president said no. Now, that's how it works. People who work for the president make recommendations and then the president makes the decision. So I think it's only fair to look at where we are in Syria today.",
"And, yes, I do still support a no-fly zone because I think we need to put in safe havens for those poor Syrians who are fleeing both Assad and ISIS and have some place that they can be safe.",      "BASH: But, Madam Secretary...",
"CLINTON: ... yes, of course they should be paying more, but that doesn't mean if they don't we leave, because I don't think that's in America's interests.",
"CLINTON: I will stay in NATO. I will stay in NATO, and we will continue to look for missions and other kinds of programs that they will support. Remember, NATO was with us in Afghanistan. Most of the member countries also lost soldiers and civilians in Afghanistan. They came to our rallying defense after 9/11. That meant a lot.",
"And, yes, we have to work out the financial aspects of it, but let's not forget what's really happening. With Russia being more aggressive, making all kinds of intimidating moves toward the Baltic countries, we've seen what they've done in Eastern Ukraine, we know how they want to rewrite the map of Europe, it is not in our interests. Think of how much it would cost if Russia's aggression were not deterred because NATO was there on the front lines making it clear they could not move forward. [applause]",
"CLINTON: I will certainly be willing to answer it. I think I did answer it by saying that of course there have to be precautions taken but even the most independent analyst will say the way that Hamas places its weapons, the way that it often has its fighters in civilian garb, it is terrible.",
"I'm not saying it's anything other than terrible. It would be great — remember, Israel left Gaza. They took out all the Israelis. They turned the keys over to the Palestinian people.",
"And what happened? Hamas took over Gaza.",
"So instead of having a thriving economy with the kind of opportunities that the children of the Palestinians deserve, we have a terrorist haven that is getting more and more rockets shipped in from Iran and elsewhere.",
"CLINTON: Well, if I — I want to add, you know, again describing the problem is a lot easier than trying to solve it. And I have been involved, both as first lady with my husband's efforts, as a senator supporting the efforts that even the Bush administration was undertaking, and as secretary of state for President Obama, I'm the person who held the last three meetings between the president of the Palestinian Authority and the prime minister of Israel.",
"There were only four of us in the room, Netanyahu, Abbas, George Mitchell, and me. Three long meetings. And I was absolutely focused on what was fair and right for the Palestinians.",
"I was absolutely focused on what we needed to do to make sure that the Palestinian people had the right to self-government. And I believe that as president I will be able to continue to make progress and get an agreement that will be fair both to the Israelis and the Palestinians without ever, ever undermining Israel's security. [applause]",
"CLINTON: Well...",
"CLINTON: Well...",
"CLINTON: I did. If that's the way we're...",
"CLINTON: ...yes, I did.",
"CLINTON: I did answer the...",
"CLINTON: Well, don't — don't put words...",
"CLINTON: ...into my mouth and say something...",
"CLINTON: ...that's not accurate.",
"CLINTON: I have supported it. You know, we are in vigorous agreement here, Senator.",
"CLINTON: I think it's important...[applause]...to point out that...[applause]...you know, we're — we're having a discussion about the best way to raise money from wealthy people to extend the Social Security Trust Fund. Think about what the other side wants to do. They're calling Social Security a Ponzi scheme. They still want to privatize it.",
"In fact, their whole idea is to turn over the Social Security Trust Fund to Wall Street, something you and I would never let happen.",
"CLINTON: So, yes, we both want to make sure... [applause]",
"CLINTON: ...Social Security [inaudible]...",
"CLINTON: ...and well-funded...",
"CLINTON: No.",
"CLINTON: I am...",
"CLINTON: I have said yes, we are going to pick the best way or combination...",
"CLINTON: ...or combination of ways...[booing]...you know...[booing]...it — it's all — it's always a little bit, uh, challenging because, you know, if Senator Sanders doesn't agree with how you are approaching something, then you are a member of the establishment.",
"Well, let me say then...",
"CLINTON: ...let me say this... [applause]...we are going to extend the Social Security Trust Fund. We've got some good ideas to do it. Let's get a Congress elected...",
"CLINTON: I am not going to contradict the president's strategy on this. And I'm not going to engage in hypotheticals. I fully support the president. [applause]",
"And I believe that the president — the president is on the right side of both the Constitution and history. And the Senate needs to immediately begin to respond. So I'm going to support the president. When I am president, I will take stock of where we are and move from there.",
"LOUIS: Senator Sanders.",
"CLINTON: You know, there is no doubt that the only people that I would ever appoint to the Supreme Court are people who believe that Roe V. Wade is settled law and Citizens United needs to be overturned.",
"And I want to say something about this since we're talking about the Supreme Court and what's at stake. We've had eight debates before, this is our ninth. We've not had one question about a woman's right to make her own decisions about reproductive health care, not one question. [applause]",
"And in the meantime we have states, governors doing everything they can to restrict women's rights. We have a presidential candidate by the name of Donald Trump saying that women should be punished. And we are never asked about this.",
"And to be complete in my concern, Senator Sanders says with respect to Trump it was a distraction. I don't think it's a distraction. It goes to the heart of who we are as women, our rights, our autonomy, our ability to make our own decisions, and we need to be talking about that and defending Planned Parenthood from these outrageous attacks.",
"CLINTON: Let us talk about where we are in this race. I've gotten more votes than anybody running. 9.6 million at the last count. [cheering and applause]",
"That is 2.3 million more than Senator Sanders. [applause]",
"And it is 1.4 million more than Donald Trump. [cheering and applause]",
"I think you have to look at the facts. And, the facts are that I'm putting together a very broad-based, inclusive coalition from the South to the North, from the East to the West, with African-American, Latinos, women, union households, working people and I am very proud of the campaign we are running. It is a campaign that will not only capture the Democratic nomination, but a campaign that will defeat whoever the Republican end up nominating. [cheering and applause]",
"CLINTON: And, I want to say — I also want to say that I do — I do think it is absolutely critical and incredible that we have so many young people involved in the political process. I applaud all of those who are applauding you, Senator Sanders. We're happy that they are supporting you, that they are passionately committed to you and to the issues.",
"But, let me also say it's going to be important that we unify the Democratic party when the nomination process has been completed...",
"CLINTON: And, I know something about that...",
"CLINTON: Thank you so much. Because, when I went to the very end of the 2008 campaign with then Senator Obama...",
"CLINTON: ... We did unify the party, and we did elect a Democratic president...",
"SANDERS: ... Let me, if I may just briefly say something...",
"CLINTON: Now, let me say this...",
