"CLINTON: Well, I'm relieved that the intelligence community has reached this conclusion, but I vehemently disagree with the president that nothing's changed and therefore nothing in American policy has to change.",
"I have for two years advocated diplomatic engagement with Iran, and I think that's what the president should do. He should seize this opportunity and engage in serious diplomacy, using both carrots and sticks.",
"I think we do know that pressure on Iran does have an effect. I think that is an important lesson. But we're not going to reach the kind of resolution that we should seek unless we put that into the context of a diplomatic process.",
"Former Senator Mike Gravel?",
"CLINTON: Well, there were other purposes for that resolution. It does label the Iranian Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist organization. And there is evidence that they do support Hamas and Hezbollah, as Senator Obama just said; and, in addition, have until recently, been supplying weapons and technical advisers to various factions within Iraq.",
"Since that resolution passed, which was nonbinding and did not in any way authorize the president to take any action that would lead to war, our commanders on the ground in Iraq have announced that we've seen some progress from the Iranians backing off; no longer sending in weapons and materiel and beginning to withdraw their technical advisers.",
"CLINTON: Well, many of us believe that.",
"You know, earlier this year Senator Edwards told an audience in Israel that the nuclear threat from Iran was the greatest threat to our generation. Back in 2004, Senator Obama told the Chicago Tribune editorial board that he would even consider surgical strikes by missiles to take out Iran's nuclear capacity.",
"So there was a very broadly based belief that they were pursuing a nuclear weapon.",
"Senator Edwards, you remember saying that?",
"CLINTON: Well, I did, along with many others, including strong opponents of the Iraq war and the use of military force, like Senator Dick Durbin and Senator Carl Levin.",
"And all of us have said that if we thought that anything in that resolution gave even a pretense of legitimacy to President Bush taking any action, we wouldn't have voted that way.",
"In fact, a number of the Democrats worked furiously to clarify the meaning of that resolution.",
"The specifics about designating the Iranian Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist organization I believe fits into a broader diplomatic effort. I believe in aggressive diplomacy when it comes to Iran. And when you engage in aggressive diplomacy, you need both carrots and sticks.",
"And I think the designation provides one of those sticks that will give us a chance to make progress to where we could have a resolution.",
"(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)",
"SEN. JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN, I-CONN.: Iran has crossed a red line. I mean, they are responsible for the killing of hundreds of American soldiers. And right now all that we, the United States, has done is to tell them -- show them the evidence that we have that they're doing it and tell them they've got to stop and they haven't.",
"So, now we have economic sanctions.",
"If that doesn't work, we really have to consider military action to stop them from doing it, perhaps by striking the bases around Tehran where we know they are training these Iraqi terrorists who go back to kill Americans.",
"CLINTON: Well, I understand politics, and I understand making outlandish political charges, but this really goes way too far.",
"In fact, having designated the Iranian Revolutionary Guard a terrorist organization, we've actually seen some changes in their behavior.",
"There is absolutely no basis for a rush to war, which I oppose and have opposed for two years.",
"But there is also a recognition that the Iranians were supplying weapons that killed Americans, they were supplying technical assistance from the Quds Force, which is their special operations element.",
"So I think we've actually seen the positive effects of having labeled them a terrorist organization because it did change their behavior.",
"CLINTON: I think, first of all, it's important to recognize the Ahmadinejad does not control the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. They are directly controlled from the clerical leadership and the supreme leader.",
"And, in fact, because we have not engaged in diplomacy, we are quite unsure about what exactly goes on inside of Iran, which is one of the reasons why I've advocated diplomatic efforts for two years.",
"If we were to engage in such diplomatic efforts, because of the enmeshment of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard in the economic activity of Iran, I believe these economic sanctions, as part of diplomacy, would be an advantage going in to those diplomatic efforts.",
"I have the greatest respect for my friend and colleague, Joe Biden. He and I just respectfully disagree about this. But I think that the important issues is that this is something that we have strong feelings about.",
"CLINTON: But none of us is advocating a rush to war. I have been against that. I was the first of anyone at this table to go to the floor of the Senate, speak against the possibility that Bush could take us to war in Iran, back in February.",
"And I think that we have two different ways of approaching this. Our goals are the same: diplomatic engagement with Iran.",
"And he put it this way: Clearly, many Muslims hate the U.S. enough to want to do us grievous harm. Would you speculate on the reasons for their hatred of us?",
"Senator Biden, why?",
"CLINTON: Well, it will be a doctrine of restoring America's leadership and moral authority through multilateral organizations, through attempts to come to agreements on issues ranging from global warming to stopping the proliferation of nuclear weapons and other dangerous weapons.",
"CLINTON: It will be a doctrine that demonstrates that the United States is not afraid to cooperate; that through cooperation in our inter-dependent world, we actually can build a stronger country and a stronger world that will be more reflective of our values.",
"The Edwards doctrine?",
"CLINTON: Well, your question about leverage is related to that -- the second question.",
"We currently still have more leverage, but it doesn't really count because we're not using it. We have handicapped ourselves because of the irresponsible fiscal policies pursued by the Bush economic direction. But we've also, unfortunately, seen an incoherent foreign policy.",
"So until we set our fiscal house back in order and until we understand that we have to have a strategic relationship with China, it's going to be very difficult for us to use whatever leverage we have.",
"And I fear that if we don't start taking steps to demonstrate that we are back in charge of our fiscal destiny, that we do have a coherent diplomatic approach toward China, China will continue to gain leverage over us.",
"We've talked to Iowans about China. And there's one listener in particular, his name is Don Frummelt (ph). He said that consumers and politicians both have a somewhat schizophrenic relationship when it comes to China.",
"(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)",
"QUESTION: You can't have it both ways. And I think we need candidates who are willing to bite the bullet. And if you're going to see our balance of trade is upside down with China, there's one way to fix it. Put on some kind of a tariff and prevent the American people from buying $300 TVs instead of $600 TVs.",
"(END AUDIO CLIP)",
"CLINTON: Well, first, I really sympathize with the young mother, because we don't do anywhere near enough to try to prevent dangerous materials and products from coming into our country. We don't even do enough of it within our own country. We have totally turned our back on the information that is available to try to better track the impact on children and others of these kinds of exposures to toxic materials.",
"So, number one, we need tougher standards across the board; something I've been advocating for for years.",
"Number two, it should be especially applied to any kind of imports, and the requires going and making sure that we have inspectors on the ground and we have tough standards and we exercise recalls.",
"You know, the reason we have such few recalls, even though they have been increasing, because the evidence has been so overwhelming, is because this administration has basically de-fanged the Consumer Product Safety Commission, they do not have any real appetite for going after these companies and countries that are flooding our markets with dangerous products, and that has to stop.",
"CLINTON: Well, I agree with Joe very much. You know, 12 years ago, I went to China and the Chinese didn't want me to come. And they didn't want me to make a speech.",
"And when I made the speech, they blocked it out from being heard within China, where I stood up for human rights and, in particular, women's rights, because women had been so brutally abused in many settings in China.",
"And I think you do have to call them on it. I mean, the Chinese respect us if we actually call them on their misbehavior and their breaches of human rights, economic activities and other kinds of problems that we have with them.",
"That's what I object to about this administration. We've gotten the worst of both worlds. We've gotten neither the kind of smart enforcement nor the kind of cooperation that might lead to changes in behavior. Instead, we have this erratic, incoherent policy.",
"So I think it's important that as the next president I would make it very clear what we expect from China and use every tool at our disposal to try to change behavior.",
"And, conversely, if you were elected president, would he advise you?",
"CLINTON: Well, I certainly did. I not only advised, I often met with he and his advisers, both in preparation for, during and after. I traveled with representatives from the Security Council, the State Department, occasionally the Defense Department and even the CIA.",
"So I was deeply involved in being part of the Clinton team, in the first Clinton administration.",
"And I am someone who wants the best possible advice from as many different sources as possible. And that would certainly include my husband.",
"CLINTON: No. No, absolutely not. It would be a position where we would operate from strength, with a coherent policy about what our interests were and what we hoped to achieve. I'll give you a quick example. I have a company in my state that has exported into China for many years.",
"All of a sudden, out of the blue, they were told that they were going to start having tariffs slapped on their product that would have made it absolutely uncompetitive for them to compete.",
"Their alternative was to go into business with some Chinese company, more than likely some kind of front group for the People's Army, and therefore lose their intellectual property.",
"And so I helped them stand up to that. And they respected it and backed down.",
"We'll continue in just a minute with our Democratic presidential debate.",
"The so-called M word is our next topic.",
"What obligations do American citizens have when it comes to illegal immigrants?",
"And let's start with Senator Obama.",
"Would you expect Americans, if you're president, January 2009, immigration reform, whatever you want hasn't happened yet, would you expect Americans to turn in illegal immigrants when they come across?",
"CLINTON: Well, I agree with what Barack and Chris and Dennis have already said. It's the failure of the federal government that puts people like Amy into this position.",
"I do not think we should be criminalizing her or expecting her to enforce the broken laws of our federal immigration system.",
"In fact, I spoke out very strongly against an effort that was undertaken in the House of Representatives to do just that, to basically say, anyone who offered aid, comfort, or any kind of service to someone in need who turned out to be an illegal immigrant was going to face criminal penalties.",
"That is not in keeping with who we are as Americans. What is in keeping is having a government fulfill its responsibilities. That would be my highest priority, and that's what I would attempt to achieve with comprehensive immigration reform.",
"QUESTION: Although, if a citizen witnessed some other kind of crime, wouldn't you want them to report it?",
"CLINTON: Well, you know, it's a very clever question, but I think it really begs the question. Because what we're looking at here is 12 million to 14 million people. They live in our neighborhoods. They take care of our elderly parents. They probably made the beds in the hotels that some of us stayed in last night.",
"They are embedded in our society. If we want to listen to the demagogues and the calls for us to begin to try to round up people and turn every American into a suspicious vigilante, I think we will do graver harm to the fabric of our nation than any kind of person-by- person reporting of someone who might be here illegally.",
"I reject that.",
"I think again, you have to look at the failure of the federal government and the failure of our political system to make a change in how we should be enforcing our immigration laws, and that's what I will try to do.",
"CLINTON: No, there is no contradiction. You know, comprehensive immigration reform means five things. You have to have tough border security plus a system of knowing who's here and what they're doing.",
"Secondly, you've got to crack down on employers, because people wouldn't come if there weren't a job waiting for them.",
"Third, you've got to provide more help to local communities to be able to bear the cost, because they don't set immigration policy.",
"Fourth, you do have to do what Chris Dodd is talking about, and that is, try to create some economic activity by working with the countries to our south.",
"But, fifth, you've got to have a path toward legalization.",
"And I'm in favor of all of that.",
"CLINTON: And I just want to...",
"CLINTON: Well, yes, it will. But let's put this in context, because, you know, sometimes we talk about these issues as though they're stove piped.",
"Part of the reason we're having this contentious, demagogic debate right now about immigration is because the economy is not performing for average Americans.",
"Yes, the reported unemployment rate is 4.7 percent. But the labor force participation rate has fallen dramatically. That means people have given up looking for work.",
"There is no effort to try to ease the transitions that do happen in any economy.",
"You know, I traveled this country extensively during the 1990s. I did not hear this kind of contentious debate. Why? Because we had 22.7 million new jobs. People's incomes were rising. They felt like there was plenty of opportunity to go around.",
"Now, Americans feel like they're standing on a trapdoor.",
"January 2009, as I've asked other candidates, are you going to crack down on employers, given that that may harm people you've defined as hard-working?",
"CLINTON: I will crack down on employers. I will do all five things that I just outlined. But I think it's important to look at where this debate is often taken to such an extreme, because you'll hear the voices of those saying, Deport people. Round them up.",
"That is absolutely unrealistic, and it is not in keeping with American values.",
"The best estimates I have is it would take about $200 billion over five years to round up 12 to 14 million people. It would takes tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of new law enforcement officials. It would take a convoy of 200,000 buses stretching 1,700 miles.",
"People in America would be outraged at the loss of their privacy and the invasion of their homes and businesses.",
"So we've got to do all five of the things, and I would start immediately to do that.",
"Senator Obama?",
"CLINTON: Well, there's three different points here. First, we need to have English as a common, unifying language. It's an important part of who we are and how we keep this big, diverse country of ours going.",
"Secondly, as Barack said, there are a lot of Americans who are citizens who speak different languages. I represent New York City. I think there's like 170 languages and dialects. The city would be in total chaos if people didn't get some services and some, you know, help in the language that they actually understood.",
"And, thirdly, you know, part of what the challenge here is is to make it clear that we do expect people who want to become legal in America to try to learn English. But that doesn't mean that they have to give up the language that they originally had.",
"But we have to do more with English as second language, more help in schools, to get people to be able to speak and comprehend English.",
"CLINTON: Oh, there's a lot things I don't know the answer to.",
"CLINTON: Well, I mean, obviously, everything we started off talking about in the beginning of this debate.",
"We're going to have so much repair work to do around the world. What are the best ways to try to stabilize the very difficult problems we face, from Iran to China? And I have some very clear ideas about it, but I'm not going to sit here and say that I have the answers.",
"CLINTON: Well, you know, I think that -- you know, when you are running for president, you do your very best to try to anticipate what the problems are going to be.",
"I think we have such serious issues when it comes to the economy. I think we're heading into some very turbulent waters on the economy. How are we going to balance what we need to do to perhaps stimulate our way out of some very difficult economic conditions, which are certainly being predicted now, at the same time getting back to making sure we don't put the burden on the middle class?",
"And I intend to have an economic policy that will get us through what I'm afraid we're going to inherit from the Bush administration.",
"Senator Clinton, Senator Gravel, Senator Obama, Senator Dodd, Senator Biden, Senator Edwards, Congressman Kucinich, that's where we'll have to leave it.",
"Thank you very much to all of you. It's been a great discussion. We appreciate it."
