"DODD: Well, again, this is 16 agencies that have drawn this conclusion. It wasn't just one. So it's a very compelling case that's been made here for exercising caution in pursuing what I've advocated and others have as well, and that is pursuing as much of a diplomatic solution to the problems that Iran poses -- and there are some. It would be foolish to say otherwise here.",
"But the important point is we can't do this unilaterally. And that's one of the dangers here. If we merely try to impose sanctions by ourselves, or other such efforts here, they will fail. It's very important to understand the linkage, obviously, not only between Iran, but Iraq and Iran, and our ability to build this kind of international support for efforts to convince Iran on a variety of issues to move in a different direction is being seriously compromised by our continued military presence in Iraq.",
"So there needs to be not only understanding what's written in this report, but simultaneously understanding that that universe -- that more multilateral approach is going to be hobbled and difficult, as long as we find ourselves bogged down in the Iraq situation.",
"Senator Joseph Biden?",
"DODD: Well, certainly, under what circumstance we're talking about here, I think the vote in September is very important. We're all seeking to be the nominee of our party, seeking the presidency.",
"DODD: I am.",
"That's very important because it was a -- there are only about 20 of us here -- Senator Biden and myself were the only two on this table here that were confronted with that vote that voted against it, along with Senator Lugar, I might point, Senator Chuck Hagel and others -- Jim Webb -- who felt that this was -- the language of the resolved clause in that resolution, that nonbinding resolution, specifically eliminated any option except the military one.",
"And that kind of framework is exactly the thing you're going to hear back again, in my view, and the danger involved.",
"DODD: Those critical moments come periodically, but it demonstrates leadership on a critical issue such as this one.",
"(CROSSTALK)",
"DODD: Well, this is long-standing. In the immediate aftermath of 9/11, we had -- there were, I think, classified ads in the Washington Post trying to find if there was anyone in the region who spoke Arabic.",
"This has been a vacuum for a long time, in terms of our relationship with the Muslim world -- the 22 countries in the world that are Muslim nations. We've been, basically, AWOL dealing with these nations here and that has bred a lack of understanding and appreciation -- the point I think that Barack was trying to make here.",
"But also, over these last six years, despite this effort over the last few days in Annapolis, where has this administration been on the Middle East issues here? They are connected in many ways here.",
"It appears, definitely, that we're sort of -- just that we're not engaged at all. Over the past years, both Republican and Democratic administrations have made it a part of their agenda to stay engaged, to make it clear that we're an honest broker trying to resolve the issue of Israel's security, as well as the legitimate issue of Palestinians seeking an independent state.",
"We've walked away from that. And that -- that absence of our participation, as well as our failure to understand and to try and have a better for what the culture of the Muslim world is, I think, has created the very environment you talked about.",
"DODD: Well, I want to go back to the characterization of the relationship. Obviously, it's a strategic one. But this is not a competition. If it were a competition, competition implies that people are playing by the same rules. We're not playing by the same rules here. This is an adversarial relationship today. That needs to change.",
"But when you manipulate your currency, as they do, in violation of the World Trade Organization here, to the tune of 40 percent, you've immediately created a huge disadvantage for our country.",
"When you employ slave labor in the production of your manufactured goods, when you deny access on your shelves to the products and services we produce, it is not a competition. It's adversarial.",
"Now, I'm not interested in being bellicose about this, but you need to understand exactly what the relationship is today before we decide what steps you take.",
"We ought to be -- not raising our voice in a loud necessarily way, but we ought to be able to talk about that we need to stand up and say, This is a market you want to be in. If you want to be here, then you're going to have to play like an adult here, if you're going to continue following policies that allow you to manipulate your currency, produce goods that you sell in our marketplace that do damage to our consumers.",
"When we got word that they were sending toys over here with lead paint in them, cat food and toothpaste here, the president had the authority immediately to suspend importation. He wouldn't do it.",
"Had that been a U.S. corporation doing that, their doors would have been shut in 20 minutes.",
"Senator Obama, what would you do in order to give the U.S. more leverage to be able to deal with China at least as an equal partner? And are you willing to do that despite the consequences, even if it means that consumers have to kiss those $300 television goodbye?",
"DODD: My toys are coming from Iowa.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"DODD: I'm buying Iowa toys. They're going to eat Iowa foods.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"(CROSSTALK)",
"Senator Obama first on this issue of Chinese toys.",
"DODD: No, no. I wish the Senate would have reconsidered when I offered legislation on lead paint, for instance, here to try and reduce the kind of problems that Karen has talked about.",
"I have a child that has serious food allergies here. I know what it's like every day to read a label every single day because my child could die if she consumed the wrong products here.",
"Eighty percent of the food we consume in this country's imported and only 1 percent of it is inspected. And there's no country of labeling on those products here. And you'll have 10 different descriptions of an egg here, and that's very difficult, if not impossible, for women like Karen. And parents who have children have to be careful about the products they consume.",
"This is special coverage from NPR News. (BREAK)",
"And this is how one listener, Pen Pen Wong (ph), of Venice, California, put it.",
"Let's listen.",
"(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)",
"QUESTION: Many presidential candidates have talked tough about China and its human rights record in the past but, in the end, favor secure our economic interests, rather than risk upsetting China by substantively talking about the human rights issue.",
"China is given a free pass to go at her own pace.",
"How would you balance human rights and trade with China?",
"(END AUDIO CLIP)",
"DODD: Well, I think there's an ongoing situation. I want to commend, at this point here, people like Nancy Pelosi and others who, just recently, when the Dalai Lama was here, presented him with a gold medal. We raised the issue, not often enough, on Tibet and what's happened with the almost-genocidal behavior, when dealing with this remarkable culture that's been under assault.",
"And the idea that we'd recognize him and welcome him here as a religious leader in the world is exactly the kind of symbol we need to send.",
"We're talking here about a lot of things we would do to be tougher in China. It's also important to understand a balance is necessary here. China is acquiring massive natural resources, that you raised earlier, around the world.",
"They have huge energy issues. Twenty-five million people a year move from rural China to urban China. We ought to be working with them in various areas on energy policy, environmental policy as well.",
"So I don't want this to be seen, as we discuss this today here, only just about the acrimonious or the difficult or the tough positions we're going to take, but to make them recognize that the Dalai Lama is an international religious leader who's worthy of recognition.",
"And if they, as they apparently did, threaten to deny some ships to be able to move in waters off China over that, they need to understand this isn't going to change in a Democratic administration.",
"DODD: No, I haven't, actually.",
"DODD: Nice try.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"Let's say that a citizen is hiring a nanny.",
"DODD: Check it out, very thoroughly. Yes.",
"Well, that's the question. You interview of applicants. They all seem very nice. They seem like they would take care of the kids. But it would appear that their documents may not be in order.",
"What would you want an American to do?",
"DODD: Well, I think you've got an obligation here to go beyond that if you have any doubts or questions here. People who knowingly hire undocumented workers I think need to be held accountable to a far higher degree of penalties -- civil and possibly criminal, if, in fact, it's widespread -- because these are the things that are going to slow down -- the 400,000 to 500,000 people who come here each year.",
"You know, I understand -- look, I think this debate has to begin some place. I'm very worried about the fear and hate-mongers out there who are going to divide this country very terribly on this subject matter.",
"We've been a welcoming people for the entire history of our nation here. There were exceptions in the 19th century with the know- nothings and at the end of World War I, which were dangerous periods here.",
"But, obviously, any self-respecting country has to control its borders and has to impose penalties that would otherwise attract people to come here; understanding why they want to be here, but also understanding our capacity and ability to handle this.",
"That's why I've taken the strong position here of doing whatever we can on both sides of the border, and I've worked at this for a long time. For 20 years, I've chaired the inter-parliamentary with Mexico. I speak the language fluently.",
"We have a large percentage of people coming from Latin America. We passed the CAFTA trade agreement here. You want to go right to the heart of these things here.",
"We allowed every single country under CAFTA to be able to set its own labor standard. Exactly what happens is businesses locate there and race to the bottom.",
"Instead of improving the quality of working conditions that would give people in these countries a chance to stay in their own nations, which most of them would prefer to do, we're encouraging people to come here by not having trading agreements that don't insist upon...",
"But, sticking with real people, Congressman Kucinich, the real person in that situation, what should they do?",
"DODD: They are.",
"DODD: I think both of you are right. The Pew statistics I think more recent arrivals, and that number is higher coming from Latin America. Overall, Joe's point, the people going back years here, would include a larger number coming from non-Latin American countries.",
"So both numbers may be accurate. Just depends how you frame it.",
"DODD: Just a couple of points. And that point that Barack just made is very important. This is a failure of leadership by this administration to step in at critical moments when we could have gotten something done.",
"We need to also recognize there are people at this very hour that are showing up at U.S. embassies all over the world who are seeking to come here through legal means, and we need to keep them in mind. If it looks as though they're fools to be doing what they're doing, because we're creating virtually an amnesty program in this country, then you're going to have an awful problem around the world.",
"So we need to understand that.",
"And, thirdly, this point. Look, let's understand this. The Republicans, the extreme conservatives here, want this issue on the table. They don't want to talk about the war in Iraq. They don't want to talk about the failure of fiscal policies here at home. They don't want to talk about what's going on with health care in the country. So they're going to use this issue as a wedge issue here to inflame the passions, the fears and hatreds of too many Americans.",
"We've see it in the past in our country. It's dangerous politics. And we need to describe it for what it is.",
"If you're elected president you'll hear competing claims about H1B visas for highly skilled workers.",
"People like Bill Gates will tell you we should have much, much more of them to bring in more highly skilled workers.",
"Critics of that will say: No, the United States is training other countries' engineers, and in fact those workers are working for less than American-trained specialists and engineers would.",
"What would you do as president, expand H1B visas or scale them back?",
"DODD: Health care would be a good example of that as well.",
"(CROSSTALK)",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"We mentioned that we've been taking questions from listeners in recent weeks about this debate, and one is on a small issue that I think points to a large concern.",
"It comes from Tally Wilson (ph) of Boone, North Carolina. And her concern has to do with those voicemail automated messages that you get if you call a government office or a business office, the ones that say, For English, press one; para Espanol, oprima numero dos.",
"She says, Suddenly we're asked what language we speak in our own country. Will you remove the question about what language we speak when we call any U.S. government office?",
"Senator Obama.",
"DODD: Dennis said something important. I believe -- and I'm probably maybe the only candidate here who speaks fluently a second language -- Bill Richardson isn't here today...",
"DODD: The point is, you need to be, I think, enriching this. Paul Simon, a former colleague in the United States Senate, wrote a book called The Tongue Tied Americans.",
"And understand, what I mentioned at the outset of this debate about having to run classified ads to find Arabic speakers at the time after 9/11 is an indication that we need to be talking more about that.",
"And clearly, as Joe, as you said, this is a source of our wealth and richness, is this country. We have so benefited as a result of people who come here because of religious, political persecution, seeking a better life for their families.",
"This has been a great source of strength for our country. We need to work with it, obviously, be practical about. But this is a source of pride in our country.",
"DODD: Not something to be talked about in negative terms.",
"DODD: That's right.",
"DODD: I would say the single largest issue in many ways for us to grapple with is education, because it's the heart of who we are, both in terms of our governance and economic strength in the future. And convincing everyone in the country the importance and the priority of that issue is something that I think is going to be critical to the success of our country in the 21st century."
