"DODD: Well, Tim, I -- the question is not just how you bring the troops out, but why are we there? As president of the United States, your first responsibility is to guarantee the safety and security of the American people. And so the question you must ask yourself as president: Is the continuation of our military presence enhancing that goal?",
"I happen to believe very strongly that this policy of ours, militarily (sic) involvement in Iraq, is counterproductive. We're less safe, less secure, more vulnerable and more isolated today as a result of the policy. So I believe that we ought to begin that process of redeployment here.",
"I would simultaneously engage in the kind of robust diplomacy that's been totally missing from this administration, to enhance our own interests in the region as well as to provide some additional security for Iraq. You can do this, Tim. Practically, it can be done, by military planners -- can tell you -- you can move a brigade to a brigade to a brigade and half, maybe even two a month out of Iraq. So the time frame we're talking about is critical.",
"But Congress has an obligation here. It's not enough that we just draft timetables. The Constitution gives the Congress of the United States a unique power, and that is the power of the purse. As long as we continue drafting these lengthy resolutions and amendments here, talking about timelines and dates, we're not getting to the fundamental power that exists in the Congress.",
"And that is to terminate the funding of this effort here, give us a new direction. As everyone who's looked at this issue over the last two or three years have concluded, there is no military solution here, and we need to do far more to protect our interests not only in that region, but throughout the world. We're not doing it with this policy.",
"DODD: I will get that done.",
"DODD: Yes, I will, sir.",
"DODD: From Iraq.",
"DODD: Well, I think we're going to have that opportunity over and over again in the coming days. There's going to be a request, I think, for something in the neighborhood of $200 billion that the administration's going to seek to continue to prosecute the war. So we'll have our chances to do it.",
"I think it's a little unrealistic to assume every single day you do that, Mike, but certainly you can do this when the opportunity arises.",
"And that, Tim, is the point I was trying to make to you at a moment ago here. We need to be understanding what powers exist in the institution of the Congress, those of us who serve there, and use that opportunity to do what the Constitution's given us. And that is to stop the funding. That's what we need to be doing.",
"Now look, I realize you may not get 60 votes or even 51 votes for this. But I think clarity and leadership are called for at this hour here. If you're going to seek the presidency of the United States and you're in a position today to do something about this, then it's -- in my view, it's the opportunity to stand up and lead on this issue, to bring this war, which is doing great damage to our country, to a halt. It's hurting our nation terribly, and it needs to be brought to a halt. The power of the purse allows you to do that.",
"DODD: I think in certain circumstances you have to here to get -- New Haven, Connecticut was a good example here, where there was a cooperative effort with the local police departments and others to deal with health issues, crime problems and the like. The immigration service came in and raided, basically, homes in that community causing a great deal of disruption, disrupting the relationship that was being developed with community leaders, including the local police, and dealing with matters in that community.",
"We need to step back. What's been said by Bill Richardson and Joe Biden is correct here. This was a failure of leadership again at the national level. We had an opportunity to draft an immigration law here that would have put us on the right track. I certainly endorse everything Bill's said here in terms of the provision -- I think all of us do here -- the general provisions.",
"We're a nation of immigrants here. We have succeeded in no small measure because we have been a welcoming people here. We also understand we cannot tolerate 400 to 500,000 people coming to this country as undocumented workers each year. We need to have a far better system in place that stops that flow coming in, to deal with the 12 to 20 million who are here illegally. If in the meantime here, we're dealing with children, we're dealing with crime problems, we're dealing with health issues at the local community, then you need to allow these local communities to do that.",
"If it means temporarily engaging in a sanctuary protection here, then so be it if that protects our country. In the meantime, we need to have national leadership, a president that would be able to bring together the Congress and pass the kind of immigration laws that we frankly don't have on the books today.",
"Tim, back to you.",
"DODD: Well, if I were Hillary Clinton, I'd be very worried.",
"DODD: This is the same guy who said, \"Way to go, Brownie,\" here. (Laughter, applause.) And I think \"mission accomplished\" was the other one I saw. So in terms of being a prognosticator of events, I'd say the president has somewhat of a bad record when it comes to that.",
"But certainly we all respect and admire Hillary and can understand that as well. But this race is going to be won by voters here in this state and Iowa and other caucus and primary states. Making predictions in September or August about who's going to win later on, I think, has proven to be rather faulty over the years. So I look very much forward to the kind of race that develops.",
"I said -- I walked in here this evening, and a fellow walked up to me and he said, \"Anderson Cooper, what's happened to you here?\" (Laughter.) So I realized I have some gaining of ground to do here, but nonetheless, I'm counting on the American people. Democrats make a good choice in the coming months, not the president of the United States predicting the winner in the Democratic primary. MR. RUSSERT: But your statement said, \"I can understand why the president would want Senator Clinton.\" Why does George Bush want Senator Clinton to be the nominee of the party? That's what you said.",
"DODD: Well, being somewhat facetious Tim, obviously --",
"DODD: And the question here of whether or not you're actually trying to in a sense encourage a certain outcome here. And we all believe we'd be the best candidates. I certainly do, based on 26 years of working on every major domestic and foreign policy issue of our country, having proven to get results for our nation, having authored the Family and Medical Leave Act, child care legislation, dealing in Latin America, dealing with financial services. I think people want not only promises about what you'll do, but a proven record of what you've been able to accomplish.",
"If, in fact, you made fundamental misjudgments on health care as first lady and the war as senator, why shouldn't Democratic voters say, \"She doesn't have the judgment to be president\"?",
"DODD: I don't think you have to go that far. I understand what Joe's point is here, but you could raise that tax far less than all incomes here and achieve the same result by achieving solvency.",
"But beyond just the Social Security fix, Tim, there are a host of other issues related to this. Pension security is critically important for long-term security. Financial literacy is critically important to people as well. Prescription drug issues are critically important to that population, preventive care. We need to look at doctors in a holistic way when it comes to our seniors.",
"Remember, it was only a few years ago, Tim, that the poorest sector of our population in this country were our elderly. Because of Medicare, because of Social Security, because of leadership that stood up and fought for it here, we've been able to take the older Americans out of poverty and give them a sense of decency and a quality of life.",
"So issues like privatization, as been said here, have to be off the table, and I believe you can achieve that solvency here by doing simpler things without the draconian measures that some have suggested. But you need to also deal with these other issues on the table if you're going to provide that kind of financial security and that quality of life for our older Americans.",
"DODD: Well, John --",
"DODD: Can I --",
"DODD: And I thank you.",
"What I was suggesting here -- Joe, I think, said we tax everybody. I -- he clearly --",
"DODD: -- that you don't have to do that. (Laughter.)",
"(Chuckling.) I'm sure you would, Joe.",
"DODD: And -- and -- but you could do this by basically readjusting that tax so you don't have to -- doesn't have to affect everyone in society.",
"So, John, I'm not suggesting it just be --",
"MR.: But you'd raise it to 500,000 (dollars)?",
"DODD: But you've got to raise it up, clearly, to do this.",
"Let me also say something, look, because all of this comes down to one other issue, Tim, clearly. Joe made the point earlier. We can all talk about this. No one political party is going to do this. It's going to take people who can bring people together to get the job done. And you need to demonstrate not just the experience but the proven ability to actually get results by bringing people together to do things that were difficult to accomplish. That's what I've done for 26 years. I know how to do this. And I think the American people are looking for leadership that -- not just make promises about what they're going to do, but the ability to bring elements together, as you had happen with Ronald Reagan and Tip O'Neill and Bob Dole and Pat Moynihan. That kind of leadership is missing today. That's what the American people want back.",
"MR.: I want to --",
"DODD: Three thousand kids start smoking every day in this country.",
"DODD: No, I -- I agree with Joe on this. Look, the problems associated with alcohol are significant in our country. The evidence is overwhelming. And the idea that we're going to lower the drinking age, we know that in that age group here -- and again, you can -- we have significant statistics -- are that -- (inaudible word) -- 50,000 people lose their lives in automobiles every year in this country, many of them because of the use of alcohol.",
"But let me also add here as well on that smoking issue, because it is important and it's related -- with 3,000 young people starting to smoke every single day, one of the major causes of the health care issue, Tim, that you're raising earlier -- and Medicare -- is because of chronic illnesses associated with things like smoking. So the idea that we wouldn't draft a national law to stop this in public places is one of the things you're going to have to do if you're going to deal with rising health care costs -- (inaudible) -- and the same is true with alcohol.",
"DODD: You never got to the real round.",
"DODD: I've advocated -- (inaudible).",
"DODD: if you promise not to tell my children, I will. (Laughter.) Certainly. Look, I advocated this some time ago here. We would shut down a company in this country in 20 minutes if they were using excessive lead paint, sending toothpaste and animal food to this country that was contaminated and causing great harm and danger to people here. The idea that the president would not suspend the importation of those products to our country I think was terribly wrong-headed. And certainly I would advocate that that be done until we have the guarantees of security. And beyond this issue, we ought to establish in this country, given the amount of products we now bring into this country offshore, that there is some sort of ability here to make some judgment about the safety and security of these products coming in, certainly before they leave their country. So I would certainly do that.",
"DODD: Not that I disagree, but this was all part of the Military Commissions Act which was adopted last fall.",
"DODD: There were only a handful of us that voted against it at the time. And I've written legislation to overturn it. I'll offer no better witness here than John McCain, who said that during those terrible years he was incarcerated and tortured, he would say anything to those interrogators in order to stop the physical pain. So we need to reinforce the idea here; this is a dreadful way to collect information.",
"We need to do other things to make sure it happens. But walking away from international conventions, as we did with the Geneva Conventions to disallow the restrictions on torture, I think, is a mistake, and also to walk away from habeas corpus.",
"But leadership requires you try and do something about it. And I'm doing something about it by trying to get the Congress to overturn that legislation...",
"DODD: The Good Samaritan would be a worthwhile sort of description of who we all ought to be in life.",
"DODD: What is it now, Bill? Come on.",
"DODD: Sox. And tomorrow night you're going to be hosting a debate in Red Sox nation. RUSSERT: Yes.",
"Biden?",
"DODD: Who's going to be the president of Red Sox nation? We all want to tune into that one.",
