"EDWARDS: Thank you. What I believe is that this president, who, just a few weeks ago, was talking about World War III, he, the vice president, the neocons have been on a march to possible war with Iran for a long time.",
"EDWARDS: We know that they've prepared contingency plans for a military attack. My view is that this has been going on since the famous axis of evil speech.",
"And the United States Senate had an important responsibility in standing up to him and stopping him on the vote on whether to declare the Iranian Revolutionary Guard a terrorist organization.",
"The president says we're in a global war on terror, and then he declares the Iranian Revolutionary Guard a terrorist organization and also a proliferator of weapons of mass destruction.",
"It's absolutely clear and eerily similar to what we saw with Iraq, where they were headed and there's a different approach, a smart approach, using our friends in Europe and the European banking system to deal with it.",
"Congressman Kucinich?",
"EDWARDS: Well, first of all, Senator Clinton and I just have an honest disagreement about this, but a very strong disagreement.",
"I think it's very clear that Bush and Cheney have been rattling the saber about Iran for a very long time. And I said very clearly when this vote took place on the Iranian Revolutionary Guard that it was important for us to stand up to them.",
"EDWARDS: Everyone at the table would acknowledge that Iran represents a serious issue for the Middle East and...",
"(CROSSTALK)",
"EDWARDS: Let me finish, if I can.",
"EDWARDS: If I can just finish, Dennis, for just a second -- but I do want it to be clear that, especially on an issue as big as Iran, it's very important for voters in Iowa, caucus-goers in Iowa, New Hampshire voters, to understand the differences.",
"EDWARDS: And I do believe very strongly that it was important for us to stand up. Because what Bush and Cheney did after the vote in the Senate, is they declared the Iranian Revolutionary Guard a terrorist organization and a proliferator of weapons of mass destruction.",
"EDWARDS: Well, first of all, diplomacy -- declaring a military group sponsored by the state of Iran a terrorist organization, that's supposed to be diplomacy?",
"And I would add, this has to be considered in the context that -- Senator Clinton has spoken about me; let me just respond -- this has to be considered in the context that Senator Clinton has said she agrees with George Bush terminology that we're in a global war on terror, then she voted to declare a military group in Iran a terrorist organization. What possible conclusion can you reach other than we are at war?",
"EDWARDS: And so I have a very -- very different view about what you need to do to stand up to Bush.",
"EDWARDS: I just want to be clear to the listeners that we have a real division here. I mean, among the Democratic candidates, there's only one that voted for this resolution. And this is exactly what Bush and Cheney wanted.",
"EDWARDS: Second, there is a clear path for America on Iran. They've got a president, Ahmadinejad, who is unpopular in own country. We have the capacity to work with our European allies and the European banking system to put a proposal of stick and carrots on the table that actually will help influence their behavior.",
"The Iranian people, in many ways, do not support this guy. And they're looking for a path. We need to help provide that path by making a serious proposal with our friends in Europe of sticks and carrots to help them with their economy.",
"EDWARDS: Well, first of all, I think that what's driving this belief about America in the Muslim community around the world is the bullying, selfish, abusive behavior of George Bush and this administration.",
"I do want to go back to one quick point. I listened to Senator Clinton talk about what's happening inside Iran.",
"We know what's happening inside Iran. We know a great deal about what's happening. We know, for example, that Ahmadinejad's candidates in the election this -- December about a year ago got clobbered. We know that there's serious political -- lack of political support for this man. And we have a huge wedge there that's available to America.",
"But as to the Muslim community, I think that the most important thing for America to do is to demonstrate that we have a responsibility, not just to ourselves, but to humanity, and to help make education available, to fight global poverty.",
"EDWARDS: We need to take serious steps to demonstrate that America is actually worthy of leadership.",
"EDWARDS: The Edwards doctrine will be longer-term , visionary; not the kind of ad hoc foreign policy -- foreign policy of convenience that we've seen over the last seven years, but instead, looking at not only the short-term issues that American and the world faces -- I've talked about Iran; Pakistan; what's happening with North Korea; we're about to talk about China -- but also to think about what is it that America does over the long-term to strengthen not only our leadership role, but our ability to provide stability.",
"And the key to that is for America both through our actions and through our language from the president of the United States to demonstrate that we respect people who grow up in different cultures with different faith beliefs, that we respect people who have a different perspective than we do and we intend to lead , but to work with those people, and for America, whereas education, health, et cetera, to meet its responsibility to humanity.",
"EDWARDS: I think that what's happened with the last seven years of the Bush administration is America's faced, over the long term, with two very serious challenges, one of which they've been obsessed with, which is the issue of terrorism.",
"The other is the rise and strength of China, which they've done virtually nothing about, on any front, I mean, ranging from China sending dangerous toys into the United States to our trade relationship with China to, as Robert just mentioned, their buildup of their military, which they're doing opaquely. We know very little about what they're actually doing.",
"On top of that, they're obsessed with their own internal economic development. And that results in them propping up bad regimes like Sudan, like Iran. They're doing incredible damage to the environment.",
"So the answer to the question is -- America continues to have serious economic leverage with the Chinese and diplomatic leverage with the Chinese.",
"EDWARDS: Well, I think that's -- what we know is they're growing, they're strong.",
"I think America's stronger today. And if we deal with these issues and we deal with them in a serious way across the board, and we engage on these issues -- which we have not been doing and we see the consequences for American children right now, with these dangerous lead-filled toys coming into the United States, with this extraordinary trade deficit that we have, the growing of their military. We see them propping up genocide in western Sudan and Darfur, with their economic development there.",
"American must engage the Chinese on all of these issues.",
"First, Senator Obama.",
"EDWARDS: I want to expand on a point that Joe made, and he mentioned it and it was important, which is, what's happened is big corporate America is driving American policy with respect to China. They get their way and the American people lose.",
"This is only one place that that happens, by the way.",
"EDWARDS: There are a bunch of things we need to do. We have country-of-origin labeling laws. They've been in place for years. But we don't enforce them.",
"EDWARDS: But the starting place is to actually enforce the laws that exist here in the United States and their obligations in the WTO, neither of which are being done.",
"They're not being done because corporate America drives so much of what happens in Washington, whether it's trade policy that cost Americans millions of jobs -- NAFTA, CAFTA, et cetera, whether it is the dangerous Chinese toys coming into the United States of America, whether is is country-of-origin labeling -- why is the president of the United States not saying to the American people, to local communities, Buy local ?",
"It is good for the local economy. It is good for farmers. It is good on the issue of global warming, because everything that comes from China carries an enormous carbon footprint with it.",
"EDWARDS: Yes.",
"EDWARDS: No, ma'am, I will not.",
"(CROSSTALK)",
"EDWARDS: My kids will not have toys coming from China.",
"(CROSSTALK)",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"EDWARDS: You hold them accountable in the WTO. America uses its diplomacy and economic leverage. We have enormous leverage with the Chinese.",
"And I want to add on to one thing that Chris just said. This whole issue of balance, if you look at what's happened -- and this didn't just happen under George Bush; this has been going on for a decade and a half now -- in my home town, the mill that my father worked in, the people that I grew up with, that mill's closed now. The jobs are gone.",
"The same thing has happened in Newton, Iowa, and all across this state. I met a man named Doug Bishop a few years ago who talked about having to look his child in the eye and explain why her daddy, who had worked in that mill his entire life -- that factory -- had lost his job and hadn't done anything wrong, because his child did not understand.",
"American trade policy is catering to the interests of big corporate America. It has been for a decade and a half. And we desperately need a president of the United States who instead of asking is this going to help corporate profits, is this actually going to stand up for American workers and American jobs?",
"EDWARDS: Oh, no, I didn't. No, I said we have more leverage than they do. We do. I think everybody actually agrees with that.",
"But our leverage is economic, our leverage is diplomatic. And we have leverage within the WTO, which Senator Biden and others have spoken about.",
"But we have not held China accountable. And the result is the loss of American jobs, the struggling of American families, the struggles of the middle class.",
"Those jobs helped support the middle-class and build the middle-class in this country. And as we've already talked about, dangerous Chinese products coming into the United States.",
"QUESTION: Senator, there's an implication to what you just said. The textile -- that the United States become once again a major power in textile production, and industry we associate with low-wage emerging economies.",
"Isn't it fair to think that, no matter what our relationship with China, obviously poorer countries are going to be producing a lot of textiles in mills around the world; it's just not what our economy should be specializing in at this time?",
"EDWARDS: What is fair to think is that we have had a trade policy that has cost America. My father, who worked in a mill for 37 years so that I could be -- and my brother and sister could have a better life than he had. And that mill that he worked in is gone.",
"Jobs all across Iowa are gone. And the reason is because America has catered to the interest of corporate profits; not the interests of the American middle class, not the interests of American workers, and not the interests of these manufacturing jobs.",
"Are there other things we need to do? Of course there are. America, to be competitive over the long-term, needs a trade policy that works that looks out for the interest of the middle class. But it also needs -- America needs -- to be the most creative, best educated, most innovative work force on the planet.",
"Those two things are not mutually exclusive. They can both be done at the same time.",
"You had said that if China is actually manipulating their currency, this country needs to take them to the mat. What, exactly, did you mean by that?",
"EDWARDS: What I've actually said is there have been some serious academic studies done on this question. And the studies are not the same. They have not reached the same conclusions.",
"I think that there is -- there is some confusion in the work that's been done -- the research that's been done on this question.",
"But what I've also described are some of the things that I've seen firsthand. The town -- the small town that I grew up in in North Carolina is now about half Latino, Hispanic.",
"I did a poverty tour earlier this year that began in New Orleans, but I also went through Mississippi. And in Canton, Mississippi, I met with a group of workers who worked at a poultry plant there, largely Hispanic.",
"And the abuses that they described to me were extraordinary. There was a man there who had been injured on the job, had his back broken, literally, on the job, and was told by the company doctor that it was just a generic condition and there was nothing they could do for him.",
"And what I consistently heard from the workers -- I've heard this all over the place -- is they're not being paid in many cases for the work that they've done; not being paid overtime; not being paid, in many cases, the minimum wage.",
"And if they raise any question about it, the first question the employer asks is, What is your status?",
"EDWARDS: Well, I think what the studies show is there are a lot of things driving down wages in the United States of America. One of those things, which I hope we have time to talk more about is the loss of good middle-class jobs, which has been accelerated under this administration but didn't begin under this administration.",
"And I think there are a variety of things that are contributing to that. And the great issue facing the next president -- and it will be facing me as president -- is: What do we do to strengthen and grow the middle class?",
"And there are a whole range of things that we need to do, if we actually want to save the middle class and strengthen the American economy.",
"What rights do immigrants have if they're working without proper authorization?",
"EDWARDS: Well, the answer to this is not a short-term solution. I wish there were a clear short-term solution that would be effective.",
"The answer to this is comprehensive immigration reform. That is ultimately the answer.",
"EDWARDS: They're in a very vulnerable position. And what we want to make certain, and that we would do in my administration, is that we are enforcing the laws that apply to employers. People in this discussions have talked about enforcing the responsibilities of employers not to hire undocumented workers. That's true, and that is a responsibility, and I would do that as president until we had comprehensive immigration reform.",
"But we can't continue to allow -- in my state we have agricultural workers who are being taken advantage of and abused, and in many cases living in horrid, horrid conditions.",
"EDWARDS: Well...",
"EDWARDS: What we would do is we'd use the power of the federal government and the power of our regulatory agencies to ensure that these people are not being abused.",
"Like the -- I'll give a specific example: the poultry workers that I met in Canton, Mississippi. We would make certain that their work conditions were safe. We'd make certain that they're in fact being paid for the work that they're doing; if they're working overtime, that they're being paid for their overtime.",
"Those are all things that we would do in my administration.",
"EDWARDS: Well, the first point is: Why is America not educating and training American workers to do these jobs?",
"I mean, that's the starting point.",
"EDWARDS: And that's the reason. If American workers are actually competent to do those jobs, American workers should be doing those jobs.",
"The whole purpose of the H1B visa program is to bring people from other places who have to do jobs that we don't have American workers to do.",
"Now, I think there are two pieces to this. One is, if there are American workers who can do the jobs, they should be doing them, as I just said. And they will, when I'm president.",
"Second, if we don't have adequate American workers -- and this is the other side of the equation, what Bill Gates and others would argue, and I've heard the same arguments -- then that means America's not doing its job of educating our young people.",
"EDWARDS: I believe that there are American workers who can do some of these jobs that people are being brought from other places to do. And I think those American workers, if they're there and available, should be doing the jobs.",
"But you've got to give my 30 more seconds on this. Because you can' ignore the underlying issue. The underlying issue is, are we making it easier for kids to go to college?",
"Are we driving our young people into engineering, science, and math, the very areas that we're talking about?",
"And are we doing it in a way that will strengthen the American economy over the long-term?",
"Because if we don't -- if we are not the most creative, best educated, most innovative workforce on the planet, it is very difficult for us to compete.",
"EDWARDS: Who I would choose as my vice president and whether...",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"... to consider any of these people sitting at the table with me?",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"No one seems to be very eager to grab that job at this time.",
"EDWARDS: They will. They will.",
"EDWARDS: I think we have an enormous struggle to try to restore the power in the country and the democracy back to the American people, and take it away from big corporate interests, et cetera, who have taken over the democracy.",
"EDWARDS: I think there are many ways to do that. And I think the starting place is to galvanize America to do it. But I think it is central to what we need to do for America."
