"EDWARDS: Well, I just want to add one thing to what Governor Richardson just said. I think the truth of the matter is that the tax policy in America has been established by big corporations and the wealthiest Americans.",
"That's why we have tax breaks for the top 1 percent and 2 percent. It's why the profits of big corporations keep getting bigger and bigger, while most working middle-class families are struggling.",
"So what we ought to be doing instead is getting rid of these tax breaks for big -- the wealthiest Americans -- big tax breaks for companies that are actually taking American jobs overseas.",
"This is insanity, when we're losing American jobs at the rate we are today.",
"And then, on top of that, we need to help middle-class families. I have proposed specific ideas to help them save, to help them send their kids to college, and to make sure that thy can pay for child care.",
"EDWARDS: All of these things are aimed at making sure that we have -- that we strengthen the middle class, that we can pay for things like universal health care -- I mean, you can't have universal health care, to be honest with people, unless you have a way to pay for it, and this is how we pay for it.",
"EDWARDS: We've got so much at stake in this election. You know, what makes America America is at stake: jobs, the middle class, health care, preserving the environment in the world for future generations.",
"But all those things are at risk. And why are they at risk? Because of corporate power and corporate greed in Washington, D.C.",
"And we have to take them on. You can't make a deal with them. You can't hope that they're going to go away. You have to actually be willing to fight.",
"And I want every caucus-goer to know I've been fighting these people and winning my entire life. And if we do this together, rise up together, we can actually make absolutely certain, starting here in Iowa, that we make this country better than we left it.",
"EDWARDS: Leave it better than we started.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"EDWARDS: Whatever. Translation (inaudible).",
"EDWARDS: I thought you did.",
"EDWARDS: Well, what I would say is human rights should be central to the way America engages with the rest of the world, should be central to our trade policy.",
"But if you look at what's happened with American trade policy -- you asked about China a few minutes ago. Look at what America got: big corporations made a lot of money, are continuing to make a lot of money in China.",
"But what did America get in return? We got millions of dangerous Chinese toys. We lost millions of jobs.",
"EDWARDS: And right here in Iowa, the Maytag plant in Newton closed. A guy named Dough Bishop, who I got to know very well, had worked in that plant and his family had worked in that plant literally for generations. And his job is now gone.",
"The same thing, by the way, happened in the plant that my father worked in when I was growing up.",
"It is so important that we stop allowing these corporate powers and corporate profits to run America's policy, whether it's trade policy, how we engage with China.",
"This is not good for America. It's not good for American jobs. And it's not good for working people in this country.",
"EDWARDS: Well, I want to get in.",
"I think, first of all, we need to recognize what the obstacles are to the change that everyone believes is necessary. And the obstacles are oil companies, power companies, all those entrenched interests that stand between America and the change that it needs.",
"And we do need a president who'll actually ask Americans to be patriotic about something other than war, who will say to America, for us to deal with these issues and deal with them in a serious way, whether it's cap-and-trade, whether it's carbon -- cap-and-trade is what I propose -- but either way, it's a serious effort to move America off its dependence on carbon-based fuels and deal with what I think is a moral crisis, which is the future of the planet for our children and our grandchildren.",
"EDWARDS: We have a responsibility to future generations, an enormous responsibility. Twenty generations that came before us, our parents, our grandparents, and did everything they could do to leave America better than they found it and to make certain that their children had a better life than they've had.",
"That's what our responsibility is. Our moral responsibility is to rise up as a nation, with the right kind of president and the right kind of leadership, and go after these huge moral responsibilities that we're faced with.",
"EDWARDS: The starting place is to get the children young and get them on the right track, which is why we ought to have universal pre-K for four-year-olds in America.",
"We also should go younger than that, to deal with the nutrition, health needs, child care needs of younger children, based on some models that have been developed here in Iowa and also in my state of North Carolina.",
"I think we ought to have a national teaching university, where we attract the smartest, brightest young people in America to this university -- just like the Naval Academy -- and we pay for their education, and they go out to the places in America where we do desperately need them.",
"I think we ought to give bonus incentive pay to teachers who are willing to go to the most difficult places.",
"We need to radically change No Child Left Behind. And if that doesn't work, we should get rid of it. But there are huge changes that are needed in No Child Left Behind.",
"And we need second-chance schools, because in so many places in America, we still have two public school systems.",
"EDWARDS: I mean, I would never have been able to do what I've done in this country had I not had a great public school education. It was the foundation for everything that I've done.",
"And what you see in America, is you see very wealthy suburban schools that get everything they need, and then poor rural schools, poor inner city schools that are struggling, having an extraordinarily difficult time.",
"I am committed to doing something to create one school system that works for everybody.",
"EDWARDS: Well, I've already talked about education. You asked me about this at the beginning, I think.",
"But what I would add on to that is I think if you think about -- if you think about the period post-high school, post-K-12, post-early childhood education, there's such enormous work today to make sure the kids get to go to college, first of all.",
"EDWARDS: What I've suggested is that any young person in America who's willing to work when they're in college, we pay for their tuition and books at a state university or community college.",
"And I also want us to think in a bigger way, in a more visionary way, about what we do, over the long term, to create an infrastructure that allows America's workforce, when they're 30, 35, 40, 45 to continue to be the best educated, most innovative workforce on the planet. This is something America needs.",
"EDWARDS: Well, as I'm listening, there are an awful lot of promises being made in the first year of the presidency.",
"I think people deserve to know the truth: We're faced with huge, huge challenges. And all the things that we want to do -- and I will end the war; I'll close Guantanamo; I'll restore people's civil liberties; and I'll begin the process of fighting for health care reform -- universal health care, attacking global warming.",
"But none of those things are going to happen unless we have a president of the United States who calls on the American people to join together to take this democracy and take this country back.",
"EDWARDS: Because what's happening in America today is absolutely clear: We have a small group of entrenched interests, corporate powers, corporate greed, the most wealthy people in America who are controlling what's happening in the democracy, and we have to take it back...",
"EDWARDS: ... starting right here in Iowa.",
"EDWARDS: Well, here's what I believe. What I believe is that there are very well-financed insurance companies, drug companies, oil companies; some people argue that we're going to sit at a table with these people and they're going to voluntarily give their power away.",
"EDWARDS: I think it is a complete fantasy. It will never happen. I don't think anybody in America wants to se politicians fighting with each other. But I think they understand that we have an epic battle in front of us to do what needs to be done for all the American people.",
"All the things that we've talked about today -- health care, attacking global warming, doing something about a tax policy that favors big corporations and the richest Americans, doing something about our trade policy -- every single one of those things depends on winning this battle.",
"We cannot do it if we don't win this battle. And all I would say is, I've been fighting these people, big corporations, for 20 years in court rooms and then in public life. I have been fighting them my entire life. And I have been winning my entire life.",
"And if you want a fighter, to voters, to caucus-goers, you are looking at somebody -- I'm 54 years old -- who has spent his entire life engaged in this fight and winning this fight that we must win to be able to do the things that we want to do for this country.",
"EDWARDS: Well, it is true that Bush has -- not only in the use of signing statements, but in every conceivable way, expanded the executive power. And this is not the way our founding fathers intended this government to operate.",
"And what I will do is go back to the way signing statements have been used historically.",
"And on top of that, I'm going to make absolutely certain that our three branches of government are in fact co-equal. We don't have a royal presidency. We don't have a king of the United States of America. Whatever George Bush thinks, he is not king.",
"And it's important for the American people to understand that their president respects them and understands that the Oval Office and the White House and the presidency doesn't belong to one person. It belongs to the American people.",
"EDWARDS: To remember that in the midst of political hoopla, the glorification of politicians and presidential candidates, that somewhere in American tonight, a child will go to bed hungry; somewhere in America tonight, a family will have to go to the emergency room and beg for health care for a sick child; that somewhere in American today, a father who's worked for 30 or 40 years to support his family will lose his job.",
"EDWARDS: And if that's what's at stake in this election. What's not at stake are any of us. All of us are going to be just fine no matter what happens in this election.",
"But what's at stake is whether America is going to be fine.",
"EDWARDS: Well, the Iowa Caucuses are crucial for a very simple reason: Because instead of seeing us for a few seconds on television, the Iowa Caucus-goers see us up close, in their living rooms and in townhall meetings, which means they can judge what I and they believe is crucial to the next president, which is having somebody who's honest and sincere and can be trusted, and having somebody who's driven, in their gut, by the fight to make sure that every single American no matter where they live or the color of their skin gets the same opportunity in this country."
