  
AA RR
mmeerriiccaann hheettoorriicc..ccoomm  
 
Franklin D. Roosevelt 
Pearl Harbor Address to the Nation 
delivered 8 December 1941, Washington, D.C. 
 
 
AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio 
Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Senate, and of the House of Representatives: 
Yesterday, December 7th, 1941 -- a date which will live in infamy -- the United States of 
America was suddenly and deliberately attacked by naval and air forces of the Empire of 
Japan. 
The United States was at peace with that nation and, at the solicitation of Japan, was still in 
conversation with its government and its emperor looking toward the maintenance of peace in 
the Pacific. 
Indeed, one hour after Japanese air squadrons had commenced bombing in the American 
island of Oahu, the Japanese ambassador to the United States and his colleague delivered to 
our Secretary of State a formal reply to a recent American message. And while this reply 
stated that it seemed useless to continue the existing diplomatic negotiations, it contained no 
threat or hint of war or of armed attack.1 
Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.        Property of AmericanRhetoric.com                                Updated 1/28/22                         Page 1   
AA RR
mmeerriiccaann hheettoorriicc..ccoomm  
 
It will be recorded that the distance of Hawaii from Japan makes it obvious that the attack 
was deliberately planned many days or even weeks ago. During the intervening time, the 
Japanese government has deliberately sought to deceive the United States by false 
statements and expressions of hope for continued peace. 
The attack yesterday on the Hawaiian islands has caused severe damage to American naval 
and military forces. I regret to tell you that very many American lives have been lost. In 
addition, American ships have been reported torpedoed on the high seas between San 
Francisco and Honolulu. 
Yesterday, the Japanese government also launched an attack against Malaya. 
Last night, Japanese forces attacked Hong Kong. 
Last night, Japanese forces attacked Guam. 
Last night, Japanese forces attacked the Philippine Islands. 
Last night, the Japanese attacked Wake Island. 
And this morning, the Japanese attacked Midway Island. 
Japan has, therefore, undertaken a surprise offensive extending throughout the Pacific area. 
The facts of yesterday and today speak for themselves. The people of the United States have 
already formed their opinions and well understand the implications to the very life and safety 
of our nation. 
As Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, I have directed that all measures be taken for 
our defense. But always will our whole nation remember the character of the onslaught 
against us. 
No matter how long it may take us to overcome this premeditated invasion, the American 
people in their righteous might will win through to absolute victory. 
I believe that I interpret the will of the Congress and of the people when I assert that we will 
not only defend ourselves to the uttermost, but will make it very certain that this form of 
treachery shall never again endanger us. 
Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.        Property of AmericanRhetoric.com                                Updated 1/28/22                         Page 2   
AA RR
mmeerriiccaann hheettoorriicc..ccoomm  
 
Hostilities exist. There is no blinking at the fact that our people, our territory, and our 
interests are in grave danger. 
With confidence in our armed forces, with the unbounding determination of our people, we will 
gain the inevitable triumph -- so help us God. 
I ask that the Congress declare that since the unprovoked and dastardly attack by Japan on 
Sunday, December 7th, 1941, a state of war has existed between the United States and the 
Japanese empire. 
 
1 Narrowly considered, it is true that the "formal reply" contained no definitively expressed statements of actionable, immanent hostility. Within a 
wider geopolitical context, however, and from the perspective of key actors within the Japanese government, the perceived threat posed by the 
U.S. to Japan's regional interests and ambitions had been building for some time, and to such an extent that the launching of Japan's Pacific 
campaign had reached the status of fait accompli well before its representatives had delivered their final reply. See, for example, this useful 
timeline and commentary from the Japa n Center for Asian Historical Records. Shirer’s Rise and Fall of the Third Reich offers instructive details 
on this matter from a different direction.
Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.        Property of AmericanRhetoric.com                                Updated 1/28/22                         Page 3 