"Forbes: Well, thank you very much.",
"I visited Iowa more than any other candidate on this stage. My wife, Sabina, and our daughters have logged 12,000 miles in your great state. You know me, you know where I stand. And you know that a critical test for a leader is faithfulness and fidelity to ideas and promises. You can depend on me. I will change Washington with your help. I will not bow to the special interests. I will not give in. I will fight for you.",
"Together, we can make great things happen. Let's make it happen. Let's make history. I hope I earn your support. Thank you very much.",
"Forbes: I think the key is putting patients in charge of health care resources again. There is no need for all of these third parties — HMOs, insurers, employers, gatekeepers, government bureaucracies that stand in the way.",
"It's true: If you work for the federal government as a civilian, if you're a member of Congress, you have your choice of several hundred different health care plans. If it's good enough for Congress, it should be good enough for the elderly in America.",
"So that way, if you need long-term care, you can choose a plan that does it. If you need prescriptive medicines, you can choose a plan that does it. And for those on Medicaid, you should be able to have vouchers and coupons and the like, so you make the choice, not where the government tells you to go.",
"This issues also though brings up the life issue. We've talked about and I hope we will talk about the need for keep the pro-life plank in the platform, pro-life judges and pro-life running mates.",
"It also brings up the issue of euthanasia and assisted suicide. We must fight both; they go hand-in-hand.",
"Forbes: I've put forth the strongest and boldest proposals to put patients in charge of health care again, whether it's removing restrictions on HMOs, giving you true choice and the like.",
"It's absolutely ridiculous in America today that you have to go through an appeals process if you're not satisfied with the care you get. You know, if you want to go from Wendy's to McDonald's, you don't need an act of Congress.",
"So, remove those restrictions. They're undemocratic. They're against freedom. And they should be removed. You should be able to choose your own doctor, choose your own specialist, choose your own health care plan.",
"Forbes: What were those times again, Senator.",
"Forbes: I hoped the fire survived.",
"Forbes: It's a good question. And one of the first things I will do as president of the United States is restore professionalism and integrity to the Department of Justice of the United States of America.",
"What has happened there is an absolute disgrace without precedent in our history. This administration has abused every sort of power, whether it was going after the travel office, and it's tawdry scheme to try to make money for their friends; whether it was the sudden appearance, in the White House basement, of 900 FBI files, sensitive files on their opponents.",
"And the administration wants you to believe that those files appeared by sort of a bureaucratic version of immaculate conception. [laughter]",
"The whole thing on Chinese contributions and letting our technology go to China — the whole thing has a stench to it. And we're going to clean that stench and have a Justice Department that will truly serve the American people again.",
"Unknown: Excuse me, may I ask a follow-up?",
"Forbes: Well, intelligence — we have to rebuild our intelligence and actually use our intelligence, which clearly this administration has not been doing. There's a whole job of rebuilding that has to be done. It's not just intelligence. It's not just cleaning out the Justice Department.",
"We've all made reference to the military. We need a major military buildup, starting with compensation for our people. We need more equipment, more spare parts, better training, better R&D. And, as John said, we must abide by the promises made to our veterans. Absolutely.",
"Forbes: Alan, one of the issues in America today, of course, is our importation of oil and energy. Would you support opening up ANWR in Alaska for exploration to find out what oil we have there and to get that oil out, so we're a little less dependent on sources — unstable sources overseas?",
"Keyes: Yes, I would. I think it's important that we understand that as we are facing the future, we're going to have to try to take advantage of our energy reserves.",
"We want to do it in a way that's responsible. But we know that our science now allows us to do this exploration in ways that will respect ecological and environmental requirements, at the same time that we can exploit God's precious resources for the good of our people.",
"I think it's also important because if we can reduce our dependence on foreign oil, it buys us time in order to make use of our ingenuity to develop those alternative energy resources that are going to be part of the mix as we move into the future, into the 21st century for America.",
"So, I would support that, and I think that it's as good way to go provided we do it in a way that is responsible and that harnesses our scientific know-how to make sure we respect environmental requirements.",
"Forbes: I think, Alan, you answered it very well, particularly on environmental technology. It is there to do the job right, and you're right we should do it right now.",
"Keyes: I would just want to add that I think that illustrates an approach that ought to be there in terms of all our trusteeship for the environment. Instead of letting it become an excuse for government totalitarianism, for interference in the kinds of things that can help to better develop life for our people, we need to approach it in a balanced fashioned, harnessing our ingenuity, so that we respect the environment and the requirements of our people, so that we can have a thriving economy and at the same time hand on our precious heritage from God to our future.",
"I think it can be done if we're willing to take that approach.",
"Forbes: The question is a very good one. And Washington should certainly provide relief to family farmers given the fact that the agricultural crisis today is largely made in Washington, D.C.",
"And as the system goes there, those who seem to have the most, get the most out of it.",
"For the farmer, there are several things that have to be done. One is to open up foreign markets, which this administration talks about but does not do. Don't harm our existing foreign customers in the Pacific Rim and elsewhere with disastrous economic policies that have cost us $30 billion in farm exports.",
"Enforce antitrust laws — and this will help family farmers. There are laws on the books against vertical integration going back to the turn of this century. This administration is not enforcing them.",
"And the Federal Reserve has got to get off of this high interest rate kick. They did that in the mid 1980s, devastated commodity prices in farmers. They've got to get off of it, it's unnecessary, it's doing unnecessary harm to the economy of the farmer and will eventually do harm to the economy as a whole.",
"We've been down that road before.",
"Forbes: Well, I think it's critical, in addition to doing — opening more markets, getting those barriers reduced — that we do more to enforce these antitrust laws here at home, and also do more on research on development. After all, we have a whole high-tech industry based on grains of sand, literally writing whole worlds on grains of sand.",
"If we can do that with sand, silicon, why in the world can't we do that with corn and wheat and other agricultural products — find new uses. We need to do more R&D and we will have more demand for our products.",
"Forbes: Thank you.",
"The dignity of the office has been besmirched. The office will recover because it is greater than any single individual. Harry Truman and others showed that people with seemingly limited abilities could rise to the occasion and just not treat it as some play thing — political play thing.",
"So it will take deeds. It will also though, in a larger sense, mean a reappreciation of the Declaration of Independence with those immortal words penned by Thomas Jefferson, that we are indeed endowed by our creator with certain unalienable rights. Among these, life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.",
"And one of the great tasks of the president is not just to have programs, but to create an environment where the American people can experience a spiritual and moral renewal. You can feel it beginning to happen in America.",
"And that's why the life issue is important. If you put liberty before life, that's a license to kill. We need to have life sanctified again in the American nation.",
"And then, other proposals like allowing you to choose your own schools, this is to give you...",
"Forbes:... power over your own lives, and to restore America.",
"Forbes: Thank you very much, Jessie. The more the federal government is involved in education, the greater an education crisis we will have.",
"The key to education renaissance in America — renewal — is to put parents not politics, in charge of our schools. One thing I will do as president is take that money from the Education Department, earmark it, block grant it back to states and municipalities, with the provision that parents have true choice in picking their schools.",
"The federal government should not be determining what test qualifies and what test doesn't. That's federal control of the curriculum. And we must also eliminate school-to-work and Goals 2000 and these other intrusions.",
"And I know with the American people having that true choice of choosing the school you think best for your child, we have the best grade schools and high schools in the world, bar none.",
"But if we wait for three years, if we try to have the federal government be a catalyst for reform, that's a formula for disaster. Trust the parents, not politics.",
"Forbes: We do need to push the line back on taxes and not accept ideas of just simply holding the line on taxes and going with the status quo of simply treating the code as if it's sacrosanct. We need to get rid of the code.",
"It is an abomination, an unnecessary weight on the American people. This way, we truly get rid of the marriage penalty. Unlike George Bush's proposal, this flat tax would help stay-at-home moms, not just those in the work force.",
"It would also help charitable giving in America, because it lets you keep more of what you earn. When the American people have more, they give more.",
"It encourages home ownership. Why? Because it lowers interest rates, allows you to keep more of what you earn, and, therefore, you have more to buy — with which to buy a house.",
"This code is only loved by those special interests in Washington, D.C. — 67,000 lobbyists — 100 for each member of Congress. You take away this code, and half of them are going to earn an honest living. And I will provide job retraining for them. [laughter and applause]",
"And thank you.",
"Forbes: We do indeed need to get rid of this tax code. We do indeed need to help small business people and farmers by allowing them to recover the cost of their tractor and their equipment, which my proposal would do.",
"But also, too, simply trying to cope with this code, as George Bush and John McCain would do, the timid tax cutters, is not going to get to the heart of the fundamental problem. And that is an abomination that no one understands.",
"And also, in Texas, George, your tax cuts are more apparent than real. Most tax — most Texans have never seen those tax cuts and the same thing is going to happen with your proposal on the federal level.",
"Forbes: Well, George, six out of 10 districts in Texas never saw the tax cuts in 1999. In four out of 10 districts, the tax rate went up.",
"Forbes: In two our of 10, there was no change.",
"Forbes: That's good research.",
"Forbes: Six out of 10. That's a — that's a Clinton tax cut. That's the kind he would like. Raise the tax and call it a tax cut.",
"Forbes: Six out of ten didn't get a choice.",
"Forbes: I think that the key — there is nothing wrong with posting the Ten Commandments in our schools today because they are the basis of Western civilization.",
"And I also think when you look at what's happened in the last 40 years to the quality of life in this country, when prayer was barred from school, I think it's fitting and proper that we have voluntary prayer. But that's why I support true parental control of education, where parents can make those choices.",
"If you want to send your child to a parochial school; you should have the freedom to do so. And the government should not stand in your way. If you want to home school your child, you should be free to do so and not be — have the whole bureaucracy on your backs with truancy and junk like that to try to block you.",
"You should have that freedom. If you want your child in a secular school, go ahead. Freedom of choice for parents is absolutely critical.",
"And then, we'll have, I think, a more moral people, a better educated people and a stronger America.",
"Forbes: Well, clearly, we all want a better quality of life, cleaner air, purer water and the like. The technology is there to do it. Unfortunately this administration's been wasting considerable resources on junk science, using resources for unproductive uses. They also go for these fashionable things that have no real proof in science, lasting proof, such as global warming. Trying — they know that the Kyoto treaty could never be approved by the Senate, so they're trying to do it by regulatory decree.",
"Take a practical approach. Toxic waste dumps, for example, just get rid of them.",
"Forbes: Don't let the lawyers get involved. Sixty percent of our money on toxic waste dumps go for lawyers. Cut them out, get the job done.",
"Forbes: Well, thank you all very, much. I'm an independent outsider. I see, like you, great possibilities for America — what Abraham Lincoln called a \"new birth of freedom.\" Whether it's the freedom to be born, freedom from fear of the IRS, freedom to choose your own schools, freedom to choose your own doctors, freedom to be in charge of your own health care, freedom to be safe and secure in this world, which means building up, not running down, our military.",
"But politics as usual is not going to achieve these goals. It is going to take a strong independent outsider to do it. That's why I need your help. Together we can make history. Thank you."
