"Bush: Our relationship with China. The current president has called the relationship with China a strategic partnership. I believe our relationship needs to be redefined as one as competitor. Competitors can find areas of agreement, but we must make it clear to the Chinese that we don't appreciate any attempt to spread weapons of mass destruction around the world, that we don't appreciate any threats to our friends and allies in the Far East. This president is one who went to China and ignored our friends and allies in Tokyo and Seoul. He sent a chilling signal about the definition of friendship.",
"When I become the president, I'm going to strengthen our alliances in the Far East. I'm going to work with the Russians to get rid of the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty so we can bring certainty into an uncertain part of the world, and that's the Far East as well.",
"We must say to people in that part of the world, Don't threaten our friends. Don't threaten our allies. So I'm going to change the relationship.",
"Bush: Of course I'm going to let them know. That's what a president does; a president let's them know.",
"Bush: Well, I agree. I think one of the things we Republicans stand for is to use our technologies in research and development to the point where we can bring certainty into an uncertain world. All three of us agree that the president has drug his feet on the development of an anti-ballistic missile system.",
"All three of us understand, just like I understand, that this nation must not retreat, but can lead the world to peace. I do believe there's an area where we can work with Russia in the post-Cold War era. And that's to work with them to dismantle strategic and tactical nuclear warheads. It's called Nunn-Lugar. And when I'm the president, I'm going to continue to fund Nunn-Lugar, to make sure that we work with the Russians to bring certainty into that part of the world. You see, the Russians have got to understand the post-Cold War era is one where we need to cooperate to bring peace. And, as John mentioned, and rightly so, we must convince them as well, not to spread weapons of mass destruction.",
"Bush: I don't know. Probably not. In the...",
"Bush: Maybe, but I'm going to be trying to win the election.",
"Bush: Oh, after the nomination.",
"Bush: Well, I intend to try to win the nomination in the fall as well. If he came over and knocked on I imagine any of our doors, we would open it and listen to the guy.",
"Here's the question though and the verdict on Mr. Putin is out. And it's this: Will he reject the politics inside of Russia that has allowed folks to siphon off aid? Will he stand up to the corruption inside that country? Will he welcome rule of law? Will he welcome the marketplace and the great freedoms of the marketplace? That's the question for Mr. Putin.",
"Bush: Let me say one other thing. This current administration has been sending all kinds of signals confirming Mr. Putin.",
"We don't know enough about him. We don't know enough about this person.",
"America must be diligent and firm. We must expect there to be a market evolution in these countries. We understand freedom. We understand freedom, and there are some who want to isolate our nation. We must reject isolationism, because freedom's our greatest export.",
"Bush: When it's in our national strategic interests. Europe is in our national strategic interests. The Far East is in our national strategic interests. Our own hemisphere is in our national strategic interests. The Middle East — protecting Israel is in our national strategic interests.",
"And I'll give you one clear example in our own hemisphere. If, for whatever reason, somebody tries to block passage through the Panama Canal, as president of the United States I will make sure the Panama Canal remains open for trade.",
"It's in our interests to have a hemisphere that is peaceful and open for trade.",
"Bush: Yes, I think there needs to be a clear statement of when and if we'll commit troops. I worry about Rwanda. I didn't like what went on in Rwanda. But I don't think we should commit troops to Rwanda. Nor do I think we ought to try to be the peacekeepers all around the world. I intend to tell our allies that America will help make the peace, but you get to put troops on the ground to keep warring parties apart.",
"One of the reasons we have such low morale in the military today, is because we're over-deployed and under-trained. If you talk to the men and women who wear our uniform, who are married, they're constantly being separated as a result of deployments all around the world. We've got to be very careful about when and if we commit our troops.",
"Bush: Well, it's kind of politics. And John and I shook hands and we said we weren't going to run ads and I kind of smiled my way through the early primaries and got defined. I'm not going to let it happen again. And we shook hands and unfortunately he ran and ad that equated me to Bill Clinton — he questioned my trustworthiness.",
"Bush: Well, I'm just saying, you can disagree on issues, we'll debate issues, but whatever you do, don't equate my integrity and trustworthiness to Bill Clinton. That's about as low a blow as you can give in a Republican primary.",
"Bush: Well, I stand by my ads. I stand...",
"Bush: No. I stand by what I'm trying to do. I mean, when the man says that I'm spending all the surplus on tax cuts and it's not true, I'm going to define what reality is.",
"Bush: Let me speak to that.",
"Bush: Yes, he did. Let me speak to that. Let me speak to that.",
"Bush: Let me — let me answer that.",
"Bush: Let me say something, John. Let me finish. Let me finish.",
"John, I believe that you served our country nobly. And I've said it over and over again. That man wasn't speaking for me. He may have a dispute with you...",
"Bush: Let me finish please, please.",
"Bush: Let me finish. Let me finish.",
"Bush: The man was not speaking for me. If you want to know my opinion about you, John, you served our country admirably and strongly, and I'm proud of your record, just like you are.",
"And I don't appreciate what he said about my dad, either. But let me say something, if you're going to be — hold me responsible for what people for me say, I'm going to do the same for you. And let me give you one example.",
"Warren Rudman, the man who you had as your campaign man in New Hampshire, said about the Christian Coalition that they're bigots. He talked about the Christian Coalition in a way that was incredibly strong. I know you don't believe that, do you?",
"Bush: Well, so is this man.",
"Bush: So is this man. [applause]",
"Bush: John.",
"Bush: No. John, what I said — what I said — let me say what I said.",
"Bush: Because he asked about it. That's because he asked...",
"Bush: Let's discuss the issues. Let's the discuss the issues.",
"Bush: Let me just say one thing.",
"Bush: Let me say one thing about all this business, John.",
"Bush: You didn't pull this ad.",
"Bush: This had ended up in a man's windshield yesterday...",
"Bush: ... that questions my — this is an attack piece.",
"Bush: Well, it says, \"paid for by John McCain.\" [laughter]",
"Bush: John...",
"Bush: Well, then somebody's putting stuff up.",
"Bush: I agree with you.",
"Bush: I find that...",
"Bush: I'm going to stand by what I'm putting on TV. And what I put on TV was looking in that camera and saying, You can disagree with me on issues, John, but do not question — do not question my trustworthiness and do not compare me to Bill Clinton.",
"Bush: This man — this man served our country well.",
"Bush: That's right, we didn't abandon the veterans.",
"Bush: I stood up there at that press conference and said, John, you're a man who served our country well.",
"Bush: Yes, I did.",
"Bush: Well, actually, I first laid it out last summer — a lot of it. Would you like me to go through it?",
"Bush: Well, why can't I ...",
"Bush: It's a great plan.",
"Bush: Well, that's not true. I started talking about campaign finance reform last summer. And I said the following things: We ought to ban corporate soft money, and we ought to ban labor union soft money. We ought to make sure though, that labor bosses cannot spend union members' money without their permission. It's big difference between what I believe and John believes.",
"Thirdly, we should not allow federal candidates to take money from one campaign and roll it over into another campaign. That ought to be a reform.",
"And fifthly, what I said — or fourthly, what I said...[laughter]",
"Bush: Because you were listening so closely.",
"Bush: Yes, too closely — was that members of the United States Congress should not be allowed to raise money, when there's a legislative session — that members should not be allowed to raise money from federal lobbyists during a session.",
"Bush: No, Corporations should not be giving at all.",
"Bush: There should be a ban on corporate soft money.",
"Bush: [inaudible] you can't give...",
"Bush: John, there's a $1,000 limit.",
"Bush: This is called the First Amendment, John.",
"Bush: Yes, absolutely.",
"Bush: No, I said that under the First Amendment...",
"Bush: That's corporate — that's money where people have no say, what he's saying. No corporate...",
"Bush: We have — the great thing about this country is, individuals should be the participants in democracy. The ultimate extension of some of these campaign funding reform plans out of Washington, D.C., will mean that the people who decide who the candidates are and who the victors are will be the press. I'm sure you're looking forward to that opportunity.",
"Bush: Not necessarily. But let me say something.",
"Bush: One of the things that we need to do — one of the things we need to do is to have full disclosure; is to let the sun shine in; is to let everybody know who's giving to whom. I have done that in this campaign. I put it on the Internet, who gave to whom. I've got a lot of contributors. My average contribution, by the way, is about $350 per person.",
"And I want you to know and I want you to know who's given because I don't want to hid anything.",
"So, this business about limiting individuals' capacity to put ads on the air — for example, I don't like some of the ads running about me. I don't like them at all.",
"We have the pro-abortion people running ads on me. I didn't like it. But it's their right in America to do so. This is America.",
"Bush: Well, let's start with the governors. Those who know me best support me.",
"Bush: Let me finish. I've worked with the governors. They know me well. They know I can lead. These are citizens that care about the future of the country. They've stood up and said, We know the man's record, we know his capacity to bring people together, we know his record of reform in the state of Texas has had great results for our citizens, and we want him to be the leader.",
"And you mentioned the United States senators. Thirty-eight have endorsed my candidacy, for which I'm grateful. These are citizens from all around the world — all around the country, including one from South Carolina, named Strom Thurmond. They took a look at the three of us, and decided that I ought to be the leader. They're looking for a fresh voice from outside. They want somebody to provide leadership. And that's why they supported me.",
"You know, I got defined early on as the insider. And I kept telling people my ZIP code is Austin, Texas. That's where I made my stake. That's where I've developed my reputation, and that's where those results are coming from. And John and Alan both have got Washington, D.C., addresses — well, Maryland I guess.",
"And so I — anyway...",
"Bush: Well, I respond to it. I put my record on the line in Texas. It's the second-biggest electoral state in the union. It's an important state. You better be able to carry Texas in order to become the president. And the people in my state gave me a chance to be the governor for the first time to hold four-year — consecutive year terms. I mean, I put my reputation out there. I'm a results-oriented person.",
"I want to say two things. One, I'm not the darling of the media. [laughter]",
"Bush: And number two, it's a fundamental question. And this is the question: Who can go to Washington with an agenda that's positive and hopeful and optimistic and convince people to follow? Who can gather up support necessary? Who is it that's got the capacity to stand up in the halls of Congress and say, \"Follow me\"? Who has had the experience necessary to earn the will of the people?",
"Bush: Well, I'm saying — well, I'm saying — of the three of us here, I've had the experience and the results that prove I can do so. These are good men, don't get me wrong. But I've been there. I've been there.",
"I look forward to saying to those United States senators, Here's a fresh perspective.",
"Bush: Let me say one thing about this. This is a really important part of the debate. This is the fundamental issue that Republicans and independents in this state are going to have to look at: Who can lead? Who can lead?",
"Bush: With all due respect.",
"Bush: Well, morally — any of us at this table can perform better than William Jefferson Clinton — any of us will bring honor to the office. [applause]",
"But the fundamental question is, when we talk education, for example, who's got a record? Who's got a record of reform...",
"Bush: Let me finish.",
"Bush: Well, that's part of it, no question about it. Part of it is to bring honor and dignity to the office and all three of us will do that. All three of us will do that.",
"But part of it as well is to earn the creditability of the American people, so like when we talk about education, who is it that has reformed the system? Who has got tangible results and can say that our test scores amongst African-American students or Hispanic students are up? Who's vision is it that is improving a lot of people? Because, you see, if we don't educate our children, it's unlikely that the American dream will be able to touch every willing heart. That's my record.",
"Bush: Well, I'm saying education is an incredibly important issue and if we don't educate our children, we're going to have real moral problems.",
"Bush: I was asked the question, do I support his policy of no interracial dating? I said, Of course not. Of course not. My little brother, Jeb, the governor of Florida married a girl named Columba, from Mexico — a fabulous part of our family, a great person.",
"So please don't insinuate, in any shape — way, shape or form, that I support...",
"Bush: Well, that's fine, but I walked in and talked about how our conservative cause must be compassionate. That's what I've talked about. I talked about how the principles of conservatism can lift the spirit of America, how we can improve people's lives, that's what I've talked about.",
"Bush: That's what I talked — you didn't hear my speech.",
"Bush: I — I talked...",
"Bush: I did.",
"Bush: I've got gay supporters. I don't ask their sexual orientation, though.",
"Bush: Well, they had made a commitment to John McCain.",
"Bush: And...",
"Bush: Well, [inaudible] wanted to come down and speak. And so...",
"Bush: Well, I thought they raised money for you.",
"Bush: It doesn't matter. Let's talk about that issue. Each person needs to be judged with their heart and soul. I don't ask the question what somebody's sexual orientation is. I don't ask the question.",
"Bush: Well, I'm not going to ask what their sexual orientation is.",
"Bush: I'm going to appoint conservative people in the Cabinet. It's none of my business what somebody's — now when somebody makes it my business, like on gay marriage, I'm going to stand up and say I don't support gay marriage. I support marriage between men and women. King: So if a state were voting on gay marriage, you would suggest to that state not to approve it?",
"Bush: The state can do what they want to do. Don't try to trap me in this state's issue like you're trying to get me into.",
"Bush: I have an opinion.",
"Bush: In my state of Texas, if we tried to have gay marriage, I would campaign against it.",
"Bush: We've got the Lone Star flag flying over Texas. Let's talk about that issue.",
"Bush: The role of the commander in chief is to clearly define what the mission of the military is. The mission of the military is to fight and be able to win war, and therefore prevent war from happening in the first place.",
"The commander in chief must let the general officers understand what the goal is and ask the general officers to prepare a military of high morale and high standing, capable of meeting that mission. And the senator is right. Generals came together and said, This is the best way for us to prepare our military for the mission. And that's what's important to understand as the commander in chief.",
"It is. That's what's important for the commander in chief, Alan.",
"Keyes: I think it's a little disingenuous. The rest of us...",
"Bush: Nothing is disingenuous.",
"Hold it — that the generals came together and begged for this policy, when we good and well know that it was a policy imposed by the political forces in this society...",
"Bush: You're getting repetitive.",
"Bush: I'm not telling.",
"Bush: Oh, he's a great man, no question about it. But one of the things we shouldn't be doing, right here on the eve of the South Carolina primary, is speculating out loud on who we're going to pick.",
"Bush: Well, because it's — listen, we're talking about philosophy. You know, we go to one state and so-and-so is going to be in the Cabinet, you know, and go to another state and name somebody else. That's kind of — that cheapens the process. What we need to do is get elected on principles and issues.",
"Bush: He's a great man, no question about that.",
"Bush: How about your administration?",
"Bush: Yes. I'm not...",
"Bush: I'm not going to drag my daughter into the discussions. I don't...",
"Bush: No, I'm not dragging personal. Look, you want my views on abortion, I'll give you my views on abortion.",
"Bush: I believe the next president should set this goal for America: Every child, born and unborn, protected in law and welcomed into life. That's what the next president ought to do. The president — and the question is which one of us can lead America to appreciate life.",
"The political questions around abortion are these, and this is one that's going to differentiate us from the Democrat nominee, for example, is I will sign a ban on partial-birth abortion. All three of us will sign a ban on partial-birth abortion. Vice President Gore, if he's the nominee, will sit there and justify partial-birth abortion. I don't know how he can justify partial-birth abortion.",
"A leader is someone that brings people together and understand the power of adoption. John is a loving adoptive parent, that's a — it's a loving act, it's a loving alternative to abortion.",
"A leader is someone who brings people together, both Republicans and Democrats in my state, to pass a parental notification law, a parental notification law that will reduce abortions in the state of Texas.",
"Bush: Yes, I do. I do.",
"Bush: I do.",
"Bush: Yes...",
"Bush: Yes, but...",
"Bush: I will, I will.",
"Bush: The platform talks about — it doesn't talk about what specifically should be in the constitutional amendment. That's...",
"Bush: No...",
"Bush: Please let me finish, John.",
"Bush: John, let me finish, let me finish. The platform speaks about a constitutional amendment.",
"It doesn't refer to how that constitutional amendment ought to be defined. It does not...",
"Bush: John...",
"Bush: John, I think we need to keep the platform the way it is. This is a pro-life party. We need to...",
"Bush: May I finish, please?",
"Bush: May I finish, please?",
"Bush: Please. We need to be a pro-life party. We need to say, \"life is precious\" and that's what our platform refers to. And that's why we need to leave it the same.",
"Now, I fully recognize good people can disagree on this issue. But the fundamental question amongst the Republicans is which one of us has got the capacity to lead our nation to understand the value of life; those of living, those yet unborn, and those elderly in America who are subject to physician-assisted suicides, for example?",
"Bush: But I also hear those voices, Larry, I hear those voices on the outskirts of poverty. And I've got a plan that says to her, We're going to reduce the tolls to the middle class. That's what we're saying. We reduce their high marginal rate.",
"If somebody's working hard, they ought to put more money in their pocket. And there's a fundamental difference of opinion.",
"So my plan saves and strengthens Social Security. It pays down debt. But it recognizes the most risky proposition is to leave money to be spent in Washington, D.C.",
"Bush: Goes from 39.6 to 33 percent. But by far the most...",
"Bush: Let me finish please. But by far the vast majority of my tax cuts go to the bottom end of the spectrum. And this language about Governor Bush's only has tax cuts for the rich, sounds exactly like Al Gore.",
"Bush: Excuse me. Let me say one thing else.",
"Bush: [off-mike] he had a long time.",
"Bush: Let me stop",
"Bush: ... one thing and then he can speak. That shows the difference in mentality. I don't trust Congress, I trust people. And I want to give people their money back. This is a realistic plan that I am going to get done.",
"And John, you know, grown-up or non-grown-up. You know — I know that's kind of a line you're trying to come across with.",
"Bush: No. It's weak.",
"Bush: Weak. Either you trust the people or you trust government. And our Republican Party ought to stand for trusting the people to spend their own money. To give people — the taxes are the highest they've been since World War II.",
"Sorry.",
"Bush: Thank you.",
"Bush: No, trust the people.",
"Bush: You should trust the people. Yes.",
"Bush: None.",
"Bush: No. I've presided over executions in my state. I'm actually convinced that everybody who was convicted was guilty of the crime.",
"Bush: Let me finish.",
"Bush: That we'll adjudicate those cases when they come up for...",
"Bush: Let me finish. If someone isn't, they should be put to death.",
"Bush: Let me finish. Let me finish. We've had a series of people executed in my state. These are people who were found guilty by a jury of their peers. These are people who have had full access to the courts of law. There's no doubt in my mind that each person who's been executed in our state was guilty of the crime committed.",
"I support the death penalty for this reason: When the death penalty is administered in a shift and sure and fair way, it will save lives. It will save lives.",
"Bush: No one has been executed...",
"Bush: Well, if that's the case, then that's fine for the governor to do what he did. You're asking — I'm the governor of Texas. I presided...",
"Bush: ...over executions in my state.",
"Bush: Then we would examine every case on death row. But you're asking me...",
"Bush: You're asking me about the people who have been put to death in my state and this...",
"Bush: Yes, absolutely.",
"Bush: Against it.",
"Bush: I would work with state police authorities to make sure they don't racially profile.",
"Bush: We had — we had an advance man of mine, an Hispanic guy in the state — earlier primary state — I'm not going to tell you which one — who got stopped. And he got stopped because he was in the wrong part of town evidently. And I didn't appreciate that.",
"Now you know, this...",
"Bush: No, I'm not.",
"Bush: No, I'm not implying anything. John — John McCain can define his own positions, and I'll define mine.",
"Bush: Yes. I also think he's a fine man.",
"Bush: Because I'm more conservative on certain issues.",
"Bush: You see, let me say something about all this business. And you know — and I know, your taking umbrage of John, and arguing. But the truth of the matter is, what we're trying to do is to nominate somebody to end the Clinton era. That's exactly what we're in the process of doing. Our objective is to end the Clinton era in Washington, D.C. And that's what this primary is all about. And one of us is going to emerge. One of us is going to emerge.",
"And the objective has got to breathe some common sense and integrity into Washington, D.C. That's what the primary's all about.",
"Bush: We won't hold it against you.",
"Bush: John, you're...",
"Bush: John, if I look...[crosstalk]",
"John, hey John, one thing is...",
"Bush: Listen, you're playing the victim here. Wait a minute. Remember who called who untrustworthy.",
"Bush: Please do. Please do so.",
"Bush: It doesn't amaze me.",
"Bush: I mean, it doesn't annoy me, it amazes me. It amazes me.",
"Bush: Yes. It must be the Dow Jones industrial average. There's much more to life than the Dow Jones industrial average.",
"Bush: The Dow Jones industrial average is high, but there's a lot of people wondering whether or not the future in America belongs to them. Our failed schools are creating two societies in this country, and we better have a president to do something about it. And if you're suggesting I'm going to federalize the education system like you have, you don't know my plan, you just don't know my plan.",
"Bush: Well, let me say one other thing about Clinton. There's not a lot of mothers and dads naming their sons Bill Clinton. [laughter]",
"Bush: Yes.",
"Bush: Yes.",
"Bush: Actually, unfortunately, the Mitchell effort was a good effort but it's falling apart and — but I think we ought to work to keep the peace. And the danger is is that a president who worries about his standing in the polls will try to impose an American solution. For example, in the Middle East, we can't have that. In order for there to be a real peace, both parties must agree to the terms, they must come to an agreement amongst themselves. And so, the role of the United States is to encourage and to mediate.",
"Bush: They shouldn't matter. I mean, I'm talking about whether or not somebody, you know, is trying to earn a Nobel Peace Prize; and, therefore, take our friends and demand that our friends accept something that's unacceptable to their people. We can't be a — we can't dictate the terms of the peace and we must lead the process to achieve peace.",
"Bush: Not yet.",
"Bush: I want to make sure the Russians comply with SALT.",
"Bush: Well, it's a failure of leadership in the Clinton administration. They just don't want to put something in place.",
"Bush: I think we need to keep a moratorium in place. We don't know what the world is going to look like three to five years from now. And I think we ought to keep the moratorium in place.",
"Bush: Are you suggesting that governors are greedy? [laughter]",
"Bush: There should be no access tax on the Internet — there should be no federal tax on the Internet...",
"Bush: Wait a minute. What we need to do is make sure we understand before we say something like that, that we know where the world is headed. We're just learning and that's why the moratorium is important...",
"Bush: Inherently any American is entitled?",
"Bush: Inherently, what our elderly need is a modern Medicare plan that will provide prescription drug benefits, just like federal employees get.",
"Bush: Do I feel that health care ought to be affordable and accessible? Yes, I do. But it's not going to be affordable and accessible if we have an Al Gore or a Bill Clinton try to nationalize health care.",
"Bush: Right here?",
"Bush: Yes, I am going to win. And the reason why is because the people have heard my message. That I'm coming with a message of — as a reformer who's gotten positive results in education, in welfare, in business growth.",
"Bush: Well, I want to thank all my friends here in South Carolina. There have been a lot of folks who have worked hard on my behalf. They've heard my message that if you're sick and tired of the gridlock in Washington, let's bring a leader into Washington, D.C. If your tired of this business about pitting one group of people against another, why don't we have a uniter, not a divider as a leader? If you want somebody who's going to have an agenda that is positive and hopeful and optimistic; a growth agenda for our economy, a peace agenda for the world, an education agenda that refuses to leave children behind, they're hearing that call. They're saying, We want Government Bush.",
"And so I want to thank the people of this state and I want to ask for the vote. I want you to go out to the polls on my behalf on Saturday and vote for me. And if you're for me, take some friends and neighbors with you. [laughter]",
"Bush: Absolutely.",
