"GINGRICH: Well, look, I think what Republicans have to ask is, who's most likely in the long run to survive against the kind of billion-dollar campaign the Obama team is going to run? And I think that a bold Reagan conservative, with a very strong economic plan, is a lot more likely to succeed in that campaign than a relatively timid, Massachusetts moderate who even the Wall Street Journal said had an economic plan so timid it resembled Obama.",
"So I think you've got to look at -- you know, Massachusetts was fourth from the bottom in job creation under Governor Romney. We created 11 million jobs while I was speaker, and I worked with Governor -- with President Reagan in the entire recovery of the 1980s. So I just there's a huge difference between a Reagan conservative and somebody who comes out of the Massachusetts culture with an essentially moderate record who I think will have a very hard time in a debate with President Obama. It's that simple.",
"GINGRICH: No, I don't believe he's unelectable, but I think he has a -- look, against Obama's record, I think, you know, the fact is, President Obama is going to have a very hard re-election effort. But I do think the bigger the contrast, the bolder ideas, the clearer the choice, the harder it is for that billion-dollar campaign to smear his way back into office.",
"GINGRICH: I think he will have a very hard time getting re- elected -- getting elected.",
"GINGRICH: Well, yeah. Mitt, I realize the red light doesn't mean anything to you, because you're the frontrunner. [applause]",
"But -- but can we drop a little bit of the pious baloney? The fact is, you ran in ‘94 and lost. That's why you weren't serving in the Senate with Rick Santorum. The fact is, you had a very bad re- election rating, you dropped out of office, you had been out of state for something like 200 days preparing to run for president. You didn't have this interlude of citizenship while you thought about what you do. You were running for president while you were governor. You were going all over the country. You were -- you were out of state consistently.",
"You then promptly re-entered politics. You happened to lose to McCain as you had lost to Kennedy.",
"Now you're back running. You have been running consistently for years and years and years. So this idea that suddenly citizenship showed up in your mind, just level with the American people. You've been running for -- at least since the 1990's. [applause]",
"GINGRICH: Well, the fact is that the Ryan-Wyden bill, which was just introduced recently, actually incorporates allowing people to choose and allows them to stay in traditional Medicare with the premium support model or go to new methods. And I think it's a substantial improvement, because it allows for a transition in Medicare in a way that makes sense.",
"But, David, you know, I -- I find it fascinating that very, very highly paid Washington commentators and Washington analysts love the idea of pain.",
"What -- who's going to be in pain?",
"The duty of the president is to find a way to manage the federal government so the primary pain is on changing the bureaucracy. On -- on theft alone, we could save $100 billion a year in Medicaid and Medicare if the federal government were competent. That's a trillion dollars over 10 years. And the only people in pain would be crooks.",
"So I think a sound approach is...[applause]...to actually improve the government, not punish the American people because of the failure of the political class to have any sense of cleverness.",
"GINGRICH: I think every president who works with the leader of every opposition knows they're working with someone who wants to make them a one term president. I mean you know that -- that's the American process. I worked with Ronald Reagan in the early 1990's. Tip O'Neil was speaker. He wanted to make Reagan a one term president. We had to get one-third of the Democrats to vote for the Reagan tax cuts and we did.",
"As speaker I was negotiating with Bill Clinton. He knew I wanted him to be a one term president. And we got a lot of things done, including welfare reform. Because you have to reach -- I agree with what Governor Huntsman said earlier, you have to at some point say, the country comes first. How are we going to get things done? We'll fight later. Lets sit down in a room, lets talk it through. I'll tell you what I need and I'll tell you what I can't do.",
"You tell me what you need and you tell me what you can't do and it sometimes takes 20 or 30 days. But if people of goodwill, even if their partisans, come together, talk it out, you know, we've got welfare reform, the first tax cut in 16 years, 4.2 percent unemployment and four straight years of a balanced budget, with a Republican speaker and a Democratic president. So it can be done with real leadership.",
"GINGRICH: Well, I don't think that's an easy answer. I think that's a statement of fact. [laughter] [applause]",
"You know, but let me -- let me take -- I want to go back to what John DiStaso said, because it's exactly the same question. The long- term answer to $4 heating oil is to open up offshore development of oil and gas, open up federal lines to oil and gas, flood the market, as -- as Dr. Paul said, make supply and demand work for us, not against us. The price will come down.",
"Under Obama, 2011 was the highest price of gasoline in history. It is a direct result of his policies, which kill jobs, raise the price of heating oil and gasoline, weaken the United States, increase our dependence on foreign countries, and weaken our national security in the face of Iran trying to close the Straits of Hormuz.",
"So the right president opening up in a Reagan tradition and using the massive development of American energy, there's 3.2 percent unemployment in North Dakota. There's a hint here. You can actually have jobs, lower price heating oil, which by the way means less LIHEAP spending, so you get more revenue from the federal government from royalties, less spending on -- on LIHEAP subsidy, lower price, people are happier all the way around. That's what supply-side economics was originally all about in the 1970s.",
"GINGRICH: If you look at the EPA's record, it is increasingly radical. It's increasingly imperious. It doesn't cooperate, it doesn't collaborate and it doesn't take into account economics. The city of Nashville recently had a dump that was cited by EPA. They went down to find out, what was it being cited for? And they told them, frankly we don't know. We can't find the records that lead to this citation and we're not exactly sure what it referenced. But it must be bad or we wouldn't have sent it out. [laughter]",
"In Iowa they had a dust regulation underway because they control particulate matter. I do agree on clean air. There are things they should do that are right. But dust in Iowa is -- is an absurdity. And they were worried that the plowing of a cornfield would leave dust to go to another farmer's cornfield. And they were going to -- they were planning to issue a regulation. In Arizona they went in on the dust regulation and suggested to them that maybe if they watered down the earth, they wouldn't have these dust storms in the middle of the year. And people said to them, you know the reason it's called a desert...[laughter]...is there's no water. Now this is an agency out of touch with reality which I believe is incorrigible and you need a new agency that is practical, has commonsense, uses economic factors and in the case of -- of pollution actually incentives change, doesn't just punish it.",
"DISTASO: All right, Andy?",
"HILLER: Governor Perry, your party's last nominee, John McCain wrote in the Washington Post in an op-ed about a year ago, his words, \"I disagree with many of the president's policies but I believe he is a patriot, sincerely intent on using his time in office to advance our country's cause. I reject accusations that his policies and beliefs make him unworthy to lead America, or opposed to it's founding ideals.\" Agree?",
"GINGRICH: Sure.",
"GINGRICH: I'm consistent because I think you ought to have fact- based campaigns to talk about the records.",
"GINGRICH: Well, I think you have to look at the film, which I haven't seen. But if you look at \"The New York Times\" article, I think it was on Thursday, you would clearly have to say that Bain, at times, engaged in behavior where they looted a company, leaving behind 1,700 unemployed people. That's \"The New York Times.\" That's not me.",
"So I think, you know, the -- I mean one of the ads I complained about got four Pinocchios from \"The Wall Street\" -- from \"The Washington Post.\" Now, to get four Pinocchios in a 30 second ad means there's virtually nothing accurate...",
"GINGRICH: -- in 30 seconds.",
"GINGRICH: Well, sure. Governor, I wish you would calmly and directly state it is your former staff running the PAC. It is your millionaire friends giving to the PAC. And you know some of the ads are -- aren't true. Just say that. It's straightforward. [applause]",
"GINGRICH: Yes, but...",
"GINGRICH: Good.",
"GINGRICH: [inaudible].",
"GINGRICH: You think my rhetoric was over-the-top, but your ads were totally reasonable? That's what I don't understand. Look...",
"GINGRICH: I've taken the governor's advice.",
"GINGRICH: David, wait a second. Come on. Come on. I'm glad finally on this stage, weeks later, he has said, gee, if they're wrong, they should take them down. They would have course -- we've sent a letter in South Carolina saying -- warning the stations to just fact-check them before they start running them.",
"But I'm taking his advice. You know, we started to run his commercial from 1994 attacking Teddy Kennedy for running negative ads. We thought, no, that would be wrong.",
"So, instead, I -- I agree with him. It takes broad shoulders to run. If you can't take the heat, get out of the kitchen. When the 27-and-a-half-minute movie comes out, I hope it's accurate.",
"I -- I -- I can say publicly I hope that the super PAC runs an accurate movie about Bain. It will be based on establishment newspapers, like the Washington Post, the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, Barron's, Bloomberg News. And I hope that it's totally accurate and then people can watch the 27-and-a-half minutes of his career at Bain and decide for themselves."
