"GINGRICH: No, let me draw a distinction. I think there -- virtually every American has a reason to be angry. I think virtually every American has a reason to be worried.",
"I think the people who are protesting on Wall Street break into two groups. One is left-wing agitators who would be happy to show up next week on any other topic, and the other is sincere middle-class people who, frankly, are very close to the Tea Party people and actually care.",
"And you can tell which group is which. The people who are decent, responsible citizens pick up after themselves. The people who are just out there as activists trash the place and walk off and are proud of having trashed it. So let's draw that distinction.",
"If they want to really change things, the first person to fire is Bernanke, who is a disastrous chairman of the Federal Reserve. The second person to fire is Geithner.",
"The fact is, in both the Bush and the Obama administrations, the fix has been in. And I think it's perfectly reasonable for people to be angry. But let's be clear who put the fix in: The fix was put in by the federal government.",
"And if you want to put people in jail -- I want to second what Michele said -- you ought to start with Barney Frank and Chris Dodd and let's look at the politicians who created the environment, the politicians who profited from the environment, and the politicians who put this country in trouble.",
"GINGRICH: Well, in Chris Dodd's case, go back and look at the countryside [sic] deals. In Barney Frank's case, go back and look at the lobbyists he was close to at -- at Freddie Mac. All I'm saying is...",
"UNKNOWN: So if he were...",
"GINGRICH: Everybody -- everybody in the media who wants to go after the business community ought to start by going after the politicians who have been at the heart of the sickness which is weakening this country and ought to start with Bernanke, who has still not been exposed for the hundreds of billions of dollars.",
"[applause]",
"And I'm going to say one last thing. I want to repeat this. Bernanke has in secret spent hundreds of billions of dollars bailing out one group and not bailing out another group. I don't see anybody in the news media demanding the kind of transparency at the Fed that you would demand of every other aspect of the federal government. And I think it is corrupt and it is wrong for one man to have that kind of secret power.",
"GINGRICH: I am really glad you asked that, because I was just swapping e-mails today with Andy von Eschenbach, who was the head of the National Cancer Institute, the head of the Food & Drug Administration. But before that, he was the provost M.D. Anderson, the largest cancer treatment center in the world.",
"And he wrote me to point out that the most recent U.S. government intervention on whether or not to have prostate testing is basically going to kill people. So, if you ask me, do I want some Washington bureaucrat to create a class action decision which affects every American's last two years of life, not ever.",
"I think it is a disaster. I think, candidly, Governor Palin got attacked unfairly for describing what would, in effect, be death panels.",
"And what Von Eschenbach will tell you if you call him is, the decision to suggest that we not test men with PSA will mean that a number of people who do not have -- who are susceptible to a very rapid prostate cancer will die unnecessarily. And there was not a single urologist, not a single specialist on the board that looked at it. So, I am opposed to class intervention for these things.",
"GINGRICH: Can I say one thing, before we go to housing?",
"GINGRICH: Because I think this is really important. There's a real possibility that you can't have the euro and the Greek economy in the same system. There's a possibility we could have a meltdown in the next year.",
"The thing that is most obvious looking back is that Paulson and -- and Bernanke and Geithner didn't have a clue, not because they're not smart, but because they were operating in a world that had suddenly changed so radically they didn't know.",
"GINGRICH: One of the reasons I've said that the Congress should insist that every decision document from 2008, 2009 and 2010 at the Fed be released is we are not any better prepared today for a crisis of that scale because the people who were in that crisis and were wrong are still in charge. And I think we need to learn, what did they do right and what did they do learn -- wrong, precisely for the reason you raised about 2013?",
"GINGRICH: I just want to say -- I want to say one thing about the entire way Washington works, which was just posed in that question. First of all, the Congress couldn't figure out how to get the debt ceiling done with a president who showed zero leadership, so they adopt a truly stupid bill, OK?",
"[laughter]",
"And the bill basically says, we're either going to shoot ourselves in the head or cut off our right leg, and we'll come in around Thanksgiving and we'll show you how we're going to cut off the right leg, and the alternative will be shooting ourselves in the head.",
"Let me just say it bluntly. All of the spending cuts that are built into the debt ceiling bill, all of them are acts of Congress. They can all be repealed at any moment. It is nonsense to say we're going to disarm the United States unilaterally because we're too stupid to balance the budget any other way.",
"[applause]",
"GINGRICH: Governor Romney, I'd like to say, first of all, there is an awful lot in your plan that is very good, and that I think would be very helpful if implemented, a lot better than what Obama is doing.",
"But one of the characteristics of Obama in his class warfare approach has been to talk about going after people who made over $250,000 a year and divide us.",
"And I was a little surprised -- I think it's about page 47 of your plan -- that you have a capital gains tax cut for people under $200,000, which is actually lower than the Obama model. Now, as a businessman, you know that you actually lose economic effectiveness if you limit capital gains tax cuts only to people who don't get capital gains.",
"So, I'm curious, what was the rationale for setting an even lower base marker than Obama had?",
"GINGRICH: Think of us as your...",
"[crosstalk]",
"[laughter]",
"GINGRICH: You know, there is a stream of American thought that really wishes we would decay and fall apart and that the future be bleak so the government could then it share the misery.",
"It was captured by Jimmy Carter in his \"malaise\" speech. It is captured every week by Barack Obama in his apologias disguised as press conferences.",
"[laughter]",
"GINGRICH: The fact is, and the governor is exactly right, when we get back -- I mean, a lot of these folks are right about a lot of things. His energy plan, his industrial manufacturing plan, most of what he put down, a fair amount, but not totally what my good friend said there, hard money with a very limited Federal Reserve.",
"GINGRICH: Well, look, I grew up in an Army brat family. We moved all over the country. In recent years, I've had relatives out of work. I've had folks who are trying to find jobs for up to a year. We have, I think, a pretty good sense of the pain level.",
"But I also think it's important to say that, of leaders, that you find solutions. I don't think people hire one of us just to say, \"I sympathize with you.\" I think they hire us to say, \"This is how we will solve it.\" And I would say every person at this table is more likely to solve those problems than Barack Obama."
