"GIULIANI: I think this package, for what it does, is okay, and I would support it, but it doesn't go far enough. I think in the face of what's been going on, which obviously is a matter of serious concern, we should be very aggressive.",
"Congressman Dreier and Senator Bond introduced legislation -- I think it was yesterday -- that with my tax package, it would be the largest tax reduction in American history. It would take the Bush tax cuts, make them permanent, reduce the corporate tax, reduce the capital gains tax, reduce taxes on those things that would allow business to see America as more competitive. And you almost don't have a distinction any longer between temporary and permanent in the kind of an economy that we live in.",
"Is it a problem for your campaign that the economy is now the most important issue, one that, by your own acknowledgement, you are not well versed on?",
"GIULIANI: Well, first of all, let's distinguish it from the presentation of the $10 million check. That was a very different circumstance. The prince came to Ground Zero. At the request of the White House, I took him there to show him the devastation, I think in part to see how much of an alliance we could get and how much empathy we could get and how much support we could get.",
"He presented me with a $10 million check for the Twin Towers Fund, and I took it.",
"And then an hour or so later, he -- I found out he issued a press release attacking American foreign policy, and saying that American foreign policy and American support for Israel was one of the causes of it. And I gave him the check back because I thought, and so did the people that advised me -- they thought of it as blood money. That's a different circumstance than an investment in a private institution.",
"America is in a global economy. That's what we are; that's where we are. We have to look carefully at investments to make sure they're honest, to make sure they're transparent, to make sure there's no other hidden motivation behind it. But we are engaged in the global economy. And when countries invest in the United States, there's a mutuality of interest that's developed that is helpful to us.",
"Remember, back in the '80s, all of the discussion and worry about Japanese investment? I think they even bought your building, right?",
"MR.: Rockefeller Plaza.",
"GIULIANI: Well, there was a big worry that it was going to become a Japanese building, and it all changed. What happened? It all worked its way into the economy. Japan and the United States became even closer friends. They're one of our strongest allies now.",
"I'm pretty much in favor of trade and I'm pretty much in favor of free trade.",
"You've got to be careful when you have investments like this that there's no ulterior motive. But if there isn't, then this is a good thing. And we should be considering what we should be selling to them. We should be very aggressive about the global economy. Americans should be thinking about how much can we sell to the rest of the world and how much can we invest in them as they're investing in us?",
"Why should the American people continue a Republican in the White House with that kind of economic record? Senator McCain.",
"GIULIANI: I'm the only one who's actually turned around a government economy. I mean, the reality is when I became mayor of New York the economy of New York was in very, very bad shape -- tremendous deficits, ten-and-a-half percent unemployment, 300,000 jobs gone. We turned that around, cut unemployment by more than half, brought in 450,000 new jobs, and we cut taxes by 17 percent. And we did it based on growth principles, exactly the principles that are in the growth package that was introduced in Congress yesterday, which the Club for Growth said is the best stimulus for growth they've seen in a very long time. I've had the experience to do this in the 17th-largest economy in the world, and I can do it for the country.",
"GIULIANI: It's very, very interesting the way you put that question is with a poll, because when the polls were six and seven out of 10 Americans thinking it was a good idea, Hillary Clinton was in favor of the war. And now when the polls are six out of 10 are against, Hillary Clinton is against the war.",
"GIULIANI: I was for it when six out of 10 were for it; I'm for it when six out of 10 are against it. I'm for it not because of polls but because America is in a war, an Islamic terrorist war against us. America has to succeed in Iraq. And the goal in Iraq is an Iraq that's stable and an ally of the United States. And to be president of the United States, you have to be able to read polls, but you can't have them push you around.",
"GIULIANI: Before, I told you I wasn't going to answer your question. (Laughter.) But I will. We were kidding around about the questions before, who was going to ask whom.",
"The reality is that China is a great opportunity for America and a great caution for America, both. It's a great opportunity for us to engage, to engage in trade, and the more America engages in trade, the more we get to know a country, the less likely we are to have military hostilities.",
"I think we should be working with China to try to push down some of these barriers; protection for intellectual property; rule of law; an ability to sue in China, so that you can be protected if you're doing business there. We've got to be very careful about what we import from China, from the point of view of safety and security, not as much from the point of view of our economy.",
"And then I think we have to look at the rise of China as a wonderful opportunity. I see 20 (million) or 30 million people coming out of poverty in China every year. To me, that's 20 (million) or 30 million more customers for the United States. That's 20 (million) or 30 million more people we can be selling things to.",
"We should be thinking like aggressive entrepreneurial Americans. What can we sell to China? We can sell them energy independence. They need it more than we do. We can sell them health processes. We can sell them information processes. They are at a level of development that's here. We're at a higher level of development. They need to buy what we have.",
"And then I believe there's a military aspect to it as well. I think we should increase the size of our military substantially to overcome the damage that Bill Clinton did with the peace dividend, because when the two of you were talking about the military, what I wanted to jump in and say was, a lot of the cause of this was Bill Clinton's peace dividend, in which he cut the military 25 and 30 percent.",
"We've never redone or did up -- made up for that damage.",
"GIULIANI: We have to do that.",
"GIULIANI: I have a question for Governor Romney.",
"GIULIANI: Well, you can answer it too, John.",
"GIULIANI: Okay.",
"GIULIANI: But in that case, you used mandates, and you're not in favor of mandates for the country.",
"GIULIANI: (Laughs.)",
"GIULIANI: The very best way to do it is to support the technologies that are alternatives that can save the environment, and to get us to the point where those technologies can actually take over.",
"We haven't -- we haven't licensed a nuclear power plant in 30 years. France is 80 percent nuclear; we're 20 percent nuclear, we're going down to 15 percent nuclear. We have to crack through there.",
"We need to expand the use of hybrid vehicles.",
"We need to expand the use of clean coal. Carbon sequestration is expensive, but it's a process that works.",
"We have more coal reserves in the United States than they have oil reserves in Saudi Arabia. I prefer incentives for these new industries. Same thing is true with biofuels.",
"We should expand biofuels, the way Brazil has done. We should expand wind, solar, hydroelectric. We should expand natural gas, liquid natural gas. We should have a project like putting the man on a moon, the way we did back in the '50s and '60s.",
"It should be a major national project, to be energy independent. That's a matter of national security. It's also the best way, the very best way, to protect against global warming.",
"Just think about this. If we did everything we could, we put all these caps on, all these negative incentives on, we would crush American industry. And China and India would be sending out more greenhouse gases than we could ever match.",
"You've got to solve it as a world problem. You cannot solve it just in the United States. It needs new industries, new ideas. They're there. They need to be supported, and you have to do this in a positive way, not a negative way.",
"GIULIANI: This has become a very competitive race, and I always expected it would be a very competitive race. And I believe that I'm going to have the same faith that the New York Giants had last week -- (laughter) -- and we're going to come from behind and surprise everyone. We have them all lulled into a very false sense of security now. We're going to -- (laughter) -- (chuckles) -- when -- when -- when Mitt Romney asked me a question, notice he asked me a very nice question. So I think I lulled him into a false sense of security. (Laughter.) And we are going to come from behind, we're going to win here in Florida, and if you look at the races that are coming up after that, I think we're -- we're in good shape.",
"You know, this is -- these are terrific candidates. They're all running very, very good races. I always expected it would be very close. And I think, as it all got down to it, everyone is going to have a chance, and I think we're going to do very well here in Florida, and I think we're going to do very well on February 5th, and I believe that I'll get the nomination.",
"GIULIANI: (Laughs.) The reality is I believe that America is a country that is built around the English language. If you want to become a citizen, you should demonstrate your facility with English. If you know other languages, that is wonderful. That's a wonderful thing. And if we have substantial portions of populations that know other languages, I'm very comfortable trying to reach them in both English and in Spanish.",
"The core of my plan on immigration is to stop illegal immigration at the border with a border stat system, with technology, with an increased Border Patrol. I believe we can stop illegal immigration if we stop it right at the border.",
"And then we should develop a tamper-proof ID card so that people who want to come into the United States should be allowed to do that. We need to teach new behavior. The new behavior is, if you want to come into the United States, you have to identify yourself -- which, after all, makes the United States like every other country, right?",
"You can't get into most countries without identifying yourself. And then if you've got the tamper-proof ID card, you'd be allowed to work, pay taxes, get online, become a citizen, follow the rules, but then at the end of the line, you'd have to be able to read, write and speak English.",
"If you speak a second language or a third language or a fourth language, I think that's great for America. I think America has to be a country that has facility with more languages, given the global economy we live in. And I think we can be very comfortable with that, but the focus has to be on being able to read, write and speak English if you want to be a citizen.",
"GIULIANI: Well, of course, this was developed in the 1960s, because the longest dictatorship, I believe, in the modern world, is the one of Fidel Castro. The presumption is that if you're fleeing Fidel Castro, given decades and decades of murder, oppression -- including, most recently, the way he cracked down on the Cambio Group (ph), Brothers to the Rescue, all of these things -- there's a presumption in the immigration law that if you're fleeing Fidel Castro, you're fleeing political persecution.",
"In every other situation, you have to prove it. If you can prove that you're fleeing political persecution, you'll be accepted.",
"We've had this exception now for, what, for 40 years? And I think it's a fair one, given the history of Castro, which is a pretty unusual one. And he is the longest-standing dictator, certainly in this hemisphere, I believe in the world.",
"GIULIANI: (Laughs.)",
"GIULIANI: Because I probably never did anything The New York Times suggested I do in eight years as mayor of New York City. (Laughter.) And if I did, I wouldn't be considered a conservative Republican. (Applause.) I changed welfare, I changed quality of life, I took on homelessness, I did all the things that they thought make you mean, and I believe show rue compassion and true love for people. I moved people from welfare to work. When I did that, when I set up workfare, the New York Times wrote nasty editorials about how mean I was, how cruel I was.",
"I think there's a serious ideological difference. And I worked for Ronald Reagan. And I remember once, when I was in the Justice Department, The New York Times wrote a very laudatory editorial about my boss, Bill Smith, the attorney general. And Bill was very nervous that Ronald Reagan would get upset that we were off agenda, because of the good New York Times editorial. (Chuckles.)",
"So the reality is that I think there is serious ideological differences. That probably was some of the nicest language they've written about me in the last six months.",
