"GIULIANI: Somehow, I knew you were going to ask me the question about this.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"The reality is that I support the Second Amendment, as Governor Romney says.",
"I clearly believe that marriage should be between a man and a woman, although I did support domestic partnerships and still do, a contractual relationship.",
"And I believe the best way we can have common ground in this debate that you're hearing is if we put our emphasis on reducing abortions and increasing the number of adoptions, which is something that I did as mayor of New York City.",
"GIULIANI: But I think ultimately that decision that has to be made is one that government shouldn't make. Ultimately, a woman should make that with her conscience and ultimately with her doctor.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"GIULIANI: I just noticed the question before, Senator McCain said something—in four Democratic debates, not a single Democratic candidate said the word \"Islamic terrorism.\" Now, that is taking political correctness to extremes.",
"GIULIANI: It really is.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"The reality is that you do not achieve peace through weakness and appeasement. Weakness and appeasement should not be a policy of the American government. We should seek a victory in Iraq and in Baghdad, and we should define the victory.",
"And I thought the piece by O'Hanlon and Pollack last week in the New York Times, which, I have to frankly tell you, when I read it in the morning, I read it twice, and I checked—New York Times? But it was the New York Times. It was.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"And it said, \"We just might win in Iraq.\"",
"Now, why we would want to retreat in the face of at least some empirical evidence that General Petraeus and...",
"GIULIANI: The reality is that if we can bring stability to Iraq, and we can give them a chance to develop stability, that's what we should be trying to accomplish. This is part of an overall terrorist war against the United States. And that's why I noted Senator McCain's statement about Islamic extreme terrorism. This is part of an overall war against us by the terrorists. It's a battle in that war. America should win that battle. And winning that battle is to have an Iraq that helps us against the Islamic terrorists.",
"GIULIANI: The bill had two very unfortunate parts to it. One, it would reduce Medicaid Advantage, which is a very, very successful program that actually does bring about some form of a free-market solution. And second, it would have the really odd effect of moving children who presently have private insurance to becoming wards of the state, basically having them move in the direction of— and I know the Democrats get all upset when you say this, but they're taking us toward socialized medicine. If we want the kind of results they have in England or France or Canada or Cuba, like Michael Moore wants us to do, then we should go in that direction. But that would be a terrible thing to do. What we should do is increase the number of people who have private insurance. In order to do that, we should give them a major tax deduction, $15,000, let them have a health savings account as part of that. They'll have an incentive to own their own health insurance. That's the thing that's wrong with the market here. It is not really good to move this thing in terms of more government control of health care.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"GIULIANI: Well, I believe that is an option that should remain open. I believe the senator didn't express it the right way. I think the senator, if he could just say it over again, might want to say that we would encourage Musharraf to allow us to do it if we thought he couldn't accomplish it. But the reality is, America cannot take...",
"GIULIANI: I didn't say I would go in. I said I wouldn't take the option off the table.",
"GIULIANI: I said I would keep that option open. In any event...",
"GIULIANI: Well, I would take that action if I thought there was no other way to crush Al Qaida, no other way to crush the Taliban, and no other way to be able to capture bin Laden. I think Pakistan has, unfortunately, not been making the efforts that they should be making. I think we should encourage them to do it, we should put the pressure on them to do it, and we should seek their permission of we ever had to take action there as we were able to get their permission—Undersecretary or Deputy Secretary Armitage was very effective in getting Musharraf's permission for us to act in Afghanistan and Pakistan in 2001 and 2002.",
"GIULIANI: George, I think the way you're defining it is incorrect. Democracy is not necessarily immediately going to elections. Democracy is...",
"GIULIANI: Well, OK...",
"GIULIANI: The way I look at it, democracy also requires the rule of law. It requires stability. It requires people not being afraid they're going to be killed every day when they go out on the street. Democracy's only a theory if you're living in an unstable situation. So sometimes, democracy is the long-term goal, but in order to get there, you have to first build a rule of law, you have to first build respect for human rights, you have to first build...",
"GIULIANI: In some cases, maybe going to elections so quickly is a mistake. Maybe the thing to do is to first make sure that you've developed the bedrock— bedrock for democracy. You know, if you're living—I learned this in New York City when I became the mayor. Of course the situation was nowhere near as serious, but people were afraid to go out at night because crime was so rampant. I mean, we had all kinds of civil rights, but nobody could exercise them, because they were too darn afraid to go out, too darn afraid to go to the movies or go buy groceries at the grocery store. First, you have to have a certain quality of life that allows you to be comfortable (inaudible) going to exist, your children are going to go to school, you're going to be able to have a job, and your rights are going to be respected. Then elections start to mean something in the full picture of what a democracy is.",
"GIULIANI: David, there's an assumption in your question that is not necessarily correct, sort of the Democratic, liberal assumption: \"I need money; I raise taxes.\"",
"GIULIANI: But wait, wait, wait. Let me explain it.",
"GIULIANI: The way to do it sometimes is to reduce taxes and raise more money. For example...",
"(APPLAUSE) ... I ran the city—I ran a city with 759 bridges; probably the most used bridges in the nation, some of the most used in the world. I was able to acquire more money to fund capital programs. I reduced the number of poor bridges from 5 percent to 1.7 percent. I was able to raise more money to fix those bridges by lowering taxes. I lowered income taxes by 25 percent. I was collecting 40 percent more from the lower income tax than from the higher income tax. Or, I'll give you another example. Senator Edwards last week recommended increasing the capital gains tax from 15 percent to 28 percent because he wants more money.",
"GIULIANI: Now, Senator Edwards hasn't had much executive experience because the reality is the last time—the last time we raised the capital gains tax, and you can go back and check it, from 20 to 28 percent, we lost $45 billion. There is a liberal Democratic assumption that if you raise taxes, you raise money. We should put more money into infrastructure. We should have a good program for doing it. But the kneejerk liberal Democratic reaction—raise taxes to get money—very often is a very big mistake.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"GIULIANI: I think the vice president of the United States—that office has to be worked out with the president. And the thing that's clearest about it, now that we're at war and we have this Islamic terrorist war against us and we have this aggressive enemy that's already attacked us here in the United States twice, is that a vice president has to be just as capable, just as ready to take over that office, literally on a moment's notice. And that should be the major qualification. And then it should be in the discretion of the president and the vice president to decide on what kind of responsibilities they should have.",
"GIULIANI: I worked in the Reagan administration...",
"GIULIANI: I thought—I mean, worked in the Reagan administration. I thought the division of responsibilities between President Reagan and Vice President was a good one. I thought it was a really comfortable one. I mean, I'm real clear on the fact that George W. Bush is the president of the United States.",
"GIULIANI: He's the only one...",
"GIULIANI: ... who makes the decisions. He can use Vice President Cheney the way he sees fit. And I'm comfortable that you select somebody who can step in on a moment's notice with experience, background, knowing what's going on. We can't have a kind of situation like we had in, you know, the 1940s with Harry Truman, where Harry Truman, thank God, turned out to be the kind of president he was, but apparently he didn't even know about the Manhattan Project. You can't have that any longer.",
"GIULIANI: Eliminate the death tax.",
"GIULIANI: And that should be eliminated immediately. It makes no sense at all. In 2010, the death tax is going to go to zero percent. And then it's going to go to 55 percent in 2011. You do not want to be on a respirator in 2010.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"(CROSSTALK)",
"GIULIANI: And then I would say the most—the most sensible thing to do is to simplify the tax code, reduce taxes, keep taxes low. I don't think—I think the flat tax and the fair tax are both very intriguing. And if we were starting off at the very beginning with taxation, the first argument I would make is let's not have any taxes. The second argument I would make is the fair tax or the flat tax would probably be a better way to go.",
"GIULIANI: It would be too complex to get there. And somebody would have to show me how we're going to make that transition. And, also, the thought that there wouldn't be an IRS with the fair tax—well, who is going to administer the sales tax? And who's going to administer the people that are exempt from the sales tax? And who is going to administer what items might be exempt from the sales—maybe food would be exempt from the sales tax.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"GIULIANI: (inaudible) read it—underlined it.",
"GIULIANI: We just disagree about it.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"GIULIANI: To have a description of my mistakes in 30 seconds?",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"GIULIANI: Your father is a priest. I'm going to explain it to your father, not to you, OK?",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"GIULIANI: I would do the same thing that I did as mayor of New York City, and that is, I would restore hope, but for the people of the entire country: hope that this country can do great things, grand things, that we can build our future on optimism, not this kind of defeatism that I hear from the Democratic candidates. And in deference to the senator, I think the senator is a great man and very well-qualified. But the fact is, I look at the three leading Democratic candidates. They haven't held an executive office in their lives. They haven't run a city, a state, a business. I think maybe they've run a club somewhere. But the reality is, you've got to have some kind of experience for this job. You have to be able to show that you can accomplish things and you can get things done. And I've done that, and I would do that for this country.",
"(APPLAUSE)"
