"Gore: Well, let me respond to the same question, and thank you for asking it. I would also like to thank the \"L.A. Times\" and CNN for hosting this debate and the people of Los Angeles and Mayor Riordan for hosting us here. All Democrats are looking forward to the convention out here.",
"You know, I thought that Senator McCain's speech made a very powerful point, and I agree with him on a lot of the points that he made. I agree with him in his advocacy of campaign finance reform. I agree with him in taking on big tobacco and the special interests, but I think his speech illustrated that the Republican Party today is in the midst of an identity crisis. They're trying to figure out who they are. And frankly, he was introduced by Gary Bauer for that speech. Both he and Governor Bush are for taking away a woman's right to choose. Neither had the guts to speak out against the confederate flag flying above the state capitol building in South Carolina. Both are in the hip pocket of the NRA. So I agreed with the speech as far as it went.",
"Gore: I want to make one other point. James Madison in the Federalist Papers pointed out that what he called faction — the word we would use now is maybe \"ultrapartisanship\" — can stir passions that come about because of relatively small differences, and then can unleash an amount of energy that is seemingly out of all proportion to the cause of the disagreement. And I think that some on the extreme right have allowed themselves to get carried away by so much hostility toward the people they disagree with that they've lost perspective.",
"Gore: I agree with that statement. I think it was a very fine statement. And I noticed that Kate Michaelman, the head of NARAL, is in the audience here in Los Angeles. And NARAL has pointed out that both the Republican candidates have pledged to overturn Roe v. Wade, and Governor Bush went into a private meeting with Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson, and when they came out, both patted him on the back and said, well, we heard everything that we wanted to hear. Both Governor Bush and Senator McCain are as anti-choice as you can get.",
"So I think it's awfully important that we have a president who will appoint justices to the Supreme Court...",
"Gore: I thought I saw you kind of glance quickly over at me when you said the word \"Internet.\" [laughter] I appreciate that. I didn't invent it, but I worked hard to get the funding for it to help the scientists and engineers who took that small network in the Defense Department called Garfonet and then gradually expanded it to what it is today.",
"President Clinton and I are now pushing a project called the next generation Internet, Internet II, that will be a thousand times faster than the present Internet. I think that the government's role should not to regulate content, obviously. I think the government should give parents more tools to protect their young children, give citizens more protections against violations of privacy. I think we should keep the moratorium on taxing transactions on the Internet, while the questions are dealt with by all the parties, and I think we have got to close the digital divide so that everybody, regardless of income or social circumstances...",
"Gore: Bill Kennard, the chairman of the FCC, is from Los Angeles, and has implemented a law that I helped to write called the e-rate, which puts $2 billion a year into subsidizing the connection of all classrooms and libraries to the Internet to even up access.",
"I made a proposal in the last 10 days on how to close the digital divide by redefining what we mean by universal service and moving toward Internet access for every home in America.",
"Gore: Both the producers and the consuming nations have an interest in stable prices over time. There's just no question about that. But we have an interest in being less dependent on sources of oil from a region that is, over time, vulnerable to instability.",
"I helped to put in place a program called the Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles, which commits the big three automakers in our country to getting new vehicles into the marketplace that have three times the efficiency...",
"Gore: I think it will be an issue in the presidential campaign, and it should be. I met here in Los Angeles two weeks ago with Judy Shepard, the mother of Matthew Shepard. What suffering that family went through when that young man was crucified on a split-rail fence by bigots.",
"Yes, we need hate crimes legislation. Those crimes are fundamentally different. We also need the Employment Non-Discrimination Act to end discrimination in the workplace. I worked on that two years ago and we came within one vote of passing it in the Senate. If you entrust me with the presidency...",
"Gore: Well, I agree with that, and I would make one further point, racial profiling is bad policing, because the policing techniques that work are community policing that develop good close relationships within all parts of the community, and frankly, we need to recruit more African-American and Latino and Asian-American law enforcement officers and — look at San Jose in northern California, in the Bay area. The police chief there has voluntarily on his own initiative started a requirement for reporting on the race and ethnicity of all the people who were apprehended to see whether or not they have a problem and address it themselves without any outside interference because it's the best way to improve law enforcement.",
"Gore: Look at the number of rabbis who went to join Reverend Sharpton in his organizing of demonstrations and pickets following the Abner Louima case, and the — we had that case and the Amadou Diallo case. And I don't think it's that hard to understand that there a lot of people who have felt disrespect themselves, victimization themselves, who when he has spoken into the void silence that others have left...",
"Gore: In previous periods like this, Beijing has also done some even more threatening things in the past, and I was part of the decision that the — that President Clinton and the administration made to quietly, without notice, without ballyhooing it, send the U.S. Pacific fleet right down — not the entire fleet, but send warships right down the middle of the Taiwan Straits without ballyhooing it, and it was a very deft demonstration of diplomacy and...",
"Gore: I agree with that, incidentally.",
"Gore: Let me say, first of all, that I — I feel so deeply for the family of this little girl who was killed. This is an almost unimaginable tragedy. In the first grade, a 7-year-old boy shoots a 6-year-old girl.",
"Now with some of the details coming out, the little boy was in a home where he didn't even have a bed. His dad is in jail. His mother moved in with her brother. It was what the local D.A. called a \"flop house.\" People were coming in allegedly buying drugs with guns. The guns were laying around there.",
"We need child safety trigger locks. We need to ban junk guns and Saturday night specials. We need to require a photo license I.D. for the purchase of a new handgun. We need reinstate the three-day waiting period under the Brady law. We need to also deal with drugs. That was a part of this problem. We need more psychologists and guidance counselors in our schools and more teachers with smaller classes...",
"Gore: I agree with that. I was a co-sponsor of the Brady law. I cast the tie-breaking vote to close the so-called \"gun show loophole.\" The NRA has targeted me as a result.",
"I believe that we have got to take them on strongly and pass new gun control legislation, not aimed at hunters and sportsmen, but at these handguns that are causing so much distress in our country.",
"This is a — now, incidentally, here in California, you saw what leadership can do. Governor Gray Davis passed tough new gun control legislation here...",
"Gore: I want to say one other thing because your question sort of invites a focus on one big...",
"Gore: ...decision or turning point. If I reframed your question a little bit and asked: What are the kinds of mistakes that I have learned the most from? You know, every time you're — you're in a situation with a friend or a small group where you're unkind, unnecessarily, that is a mistake, whether it's — and there's no excuse for it, whether it's stress or...",
"Gore: I served as an enlisted man in the United States Army. I served in Vietnam. When Tipper and I were first married, we lived in Daleville, Alabama, outside the gates of Fort Rucker, and we lived on a private's pay.",
"I think it is unacceptable for the men and women who serve in uniform to not have adequate pay and for some of them to have families on food stamps. I think that needs to change. And I have supported efforts to change that.",
"Now they're having trouble in the military now recruiting enough people to fill out the positions. We have the finest military forces in the entire world. We need to keep them that way. But we have to give them the resources to work with to pay the people, give them the training, give them the education, give them the stable social services. Look at that tragedy in Germany involving the teenaged family members over there, terrible situation. Well, you know, maybe that's a special case, but we need to respond to what some people there are saying.",
"Gore: In addition to serving in the United States Army, I served on the Armed Services Committee in the United States Senate and on the Intelligence Committee in the House of Representatives. I have served on the National Security Council for the last seven years and have participated in reviewing our military policy, and these personnel issues are extremely significant. I would — and I think they have to be addressed adequately. I also want to add that I support adequate programs for our veterans, including increases in veterans' health care where it's greatly needed.",
"Gore: We have to get every disabled person in America who wants to work into the workforce. We need to move toward universal health care. We need to continue the Medicaid benefits that disabled Americans now get, and we need to pass a health care patients' bill of rights to prevent the health care decisions from being made, whether it's a disabled child like Ian Malone in Everett, Washington, or any American. We — those health care decisions cannot be made by bureaucrats and accountants. The power should be given back to the doctors and to the nurses.",
"Gore: I agree with Bill Bradley and John McCain on the need for campaign finance reform. I would point out to you that in this Democratic contest, we are agreed on this issue. I first proposed complete public financing of federal elections more than 20 years ago. I don't accept PAC contributions in this race.",
"I called two years ago for the elimination of so-called soft money from campaigns. I think that we can do more. I proposed legislation 10 years ago to require broadcasters, radio and TV, to give free time in election years to qualified candidates as a condition of their license.",
"I think the American people are calling out for this, and while I disagree with Senator McCain and Governor Bush on lots and lots of other issues, choice, gun control, health care, education, Social Security, Medicare, all down the line, I agree with John McCain on this issue, and I agree with Bill Bradley on this issue. If you entrust me with the presidency...",
"Gore: You know, I think Bill made a good point. In the process of trying to give John McCain credit for what he has proposed, I don't want to gloss over the fact that both Senator Bradley and I have proposed public financing of federal elections, and Senator McCain does not, but he does want to take on the role of special interests, up to a point, and I think that he should be commended for that. Now, I think that a president who is willing to lead on this, who has taken the initiative for more than 20 years...",
"Gore: Discussing this with Lieutenant Governor Cruz Bustamante, the first statewide elected Latino in modern California history, just recently. I believe that — and I supported the '86 amnesty also. I think that any subsequent amnesty has to be carefully drawn to avoid creating tensions that are unnecessary, and to be coupled with the kind of job training, and education and health care necessary to fully integrate immigrants, legal and illegal, into this...",
"Gore: I agree with that. I think that we've talked about the issue of campaign finance reform in response to a previous question, but we can't talk about it too much. It needs to be enacted. It is one of the major issues in this campaign. It unites us, but it divides the two Republican candidates. Again, Senator McCain has made this pitch and has attracted some support, but the weight of the Republican establishment is apparently coming down on him as a result. I support his efforts on that. And I support the fact that both those Senator Bradley go farther than he does.",
"I also support tough new restrictions on lobbyists. We should have — we should let sun shine in with full disclosure, and we ought to find ways to use the Internet to empower whistle blowers with more of an ability to make public any time there is some kind of situation that is untoward, and then let's just jump on it, and make sure that we expose it, and get rid of the influence of special interests money.",
"Gore: I made that pledge two years ago, called on Republican Party to do it, and I renew it today. I will also say this, that if you entrust me with the Democratic nomination for president, the first act I will take, if you give me that privilege, is to challenge the Republican nominee to eliminate the 30 second and 60 second radio and TV ads and debate twice a week on the Internet and before anybody else who will cover it on specific issues each time.",
"Gore: If you entrust me with presidency, I will have regular open meetings all across this country, With citizens invited to come in and speak just as we're speaking right now, and I'll do it on a regular basis. Frankly, one of the reasons I do support the unique role that Iowa and New Hampshire have played in giving were a small audience, to let the candidates talk about their platforms in small groups, is because you...",
"Gore: I think one of the things that Senator Bradley and I agree on, and probably a lot of others running for president agree on, is that we prefer to get questions about substance rather than process. I respect your question. But let me say that I believe that there are many purposes in a presidential campaign. One, that tends to dominate is to give the American people an opportunity to choose who will lead this country for the next four years.",
"But the purpose of a campaign is also for us to define who we are, as a people and as a nation. And to have an ennobling, educating, revealing discussion about all the challenges that we face, review some of the proposed solutions.",
"Now, we have been doing that in this campaign. And I believe very deeply that once this dialogue is over with, those who agree with...",
"Gore: Well, I'm sorry you brought that up again because I disposed of that in the last debate by pointing out to you that Bob Jones University still doesn't have its tax exemption because it lost its tax exemption under the law that I supported, and that was a vote on quotas.",
"Now those of us who support affirmative action have to oppose quotas. There is a fundamental difference. And if you want to go back 20 years, we can talk about the vote for the Reagan/Bush budget cuts, again because that was the same year.",
"Gore: Well, I oppose quotas, and I would vote against quotas every time they are put up. President Clinton and I have taken the approach known by the phrase \"mend it, don't end it.\" And frankly, the court decisions that have struck down some affirmative action schemes can only be overcome if we strictly avoid the quota approach which that represented, and instead, mend it...",
