"Gore: First of all, President Clinton has issued a presidential directive under which the information is now being gathered that is necessary for an executive order.",
"Look, we have taken action. But, you know, racial profiling practically began in New Jersey, Senator Bradley. [applause]",
"Now, the mayor — the mayor — the mayor — the African-American mayor of the largest city in New Jersey said that he came with a group of African-American elected officials — or contacted you to see if you would help on this and that you did not. Did you ever call or write or visit with respect to racial profiling...",
"Gore: Mr. Moderator, can — as a point of personal privilege, can I respond to that?",
"Gore: Can I respond now? Can I respond now?",
"Gore: You know, I think it's pretty clear what's going on, Bill. You're sounding a little desperate because you're trying to build yourself up by tearing everybody else down. Very clear. Very clear. [booing]",
"Now, I still haven't gotten the answer to why you voted against WLIB and the Tom Joyner Show and all of the African-American-owned stations and outlets that are there because we had that affirmative action. [applause]",
"Now, that — the amendment that you were the only Democrat on the committee to support...",
"Bradley: I think the question was about the future of affirmative action.",
"And I believe that we need a strong president who's not going to back away from leading on affirmative action.",
"I believe affirmative action is common sense. I believe it's reaching out to the broadest possible community in this country in order to bring all talent into our country's best performance. That's what I believe.",
"And, you know, I think that the things that have happened in California, the Proposition 209; the things that happened in Texas, the Hopgood Decision, are the wrong direction. And the only way you're going to change that is if a president is willing to lead with the bully-pulpit on this issue and not follow. [applause]",
"Gore: By all means, Bill, get the negativity off your chest. But then when you get through, let's return to face the real problems that we're facing in this country. [applause]",
"Now, I support a complete ban on junk guns, Saturday night specials, assault weapons, and, yes, I support photo license IDs for the purchase of all new handguns. When somebody goes down to the gun store, all right — and this is — if passed would be the toughest gun-control measures that we have seen in 30 years.",
"Gore: \"Former Senator Bill Bradley publicly endorsed today the appointment of a special prosecutor...",
"Gore: ...for the Clinton-Gore campaign in '96.\"",
"Gore: Well, take it up with \"The New York Times.\" You're the one that is reported as having said that...",
"Gore: And the transcripts — the transcripts...[applause] I read the transcript of what you said. Now, the point is — the point is this: We have a...",
"Gore: That's not true either, not true. That's not true either. Let me respond to this. You know, we've had basically the same length career in the Congress, and over the course of that time, I'm proud that I have a better COPE voting record measured by the support of working men and women and organized labor than Senator Bradley. I compiled that better record in a state in the South where it was not always that easy compared to New Jersey.",
"I have — I am the one who has been endorsed by the leading pro-choice group. I have been endorsed by organized labor. I have been endorsed by Senator Ted Kennedy and by virtually the entire Congressional Black Caucus.",
"Now, do you think that they all have such poor judgment, Senator Bradley? [applause]",
"Gore: You know what? In my experience, Black Caucus is pretty savvy. They know a lot more than you think they know. [applause]",
"You know, they're not — black — Congressional Black Caucus is not out there being led around, you know. They know what the score is. And they also know that their brothers and sisters in New Jersey said you were never for them walking the walk, just talking the talk. [applause]",
"Gore: I believe we should make it the top priority also by investing in the construction of new schools and new classrooms and giving — and having universal preschool for every child and every family, and giving — and giving families help in paying college tuition.",
"Now, when I began my campaign I made this the top priority. Senator Bradley went for 14 months before making a speech on education policy per se. And I would like to ask him a question. Why now do you still...",
