"Gore: Thank you.",
"Gore: I agree with those comments. I thought it was a good statement. And I think that — to return to the original question, I think that it's perfectly true that there are some people who see the Confederate flag in a different way, and I think that we have to try to bring them into a shared understanding of why, as a symbol, it is so hurtful to the majority.",
"And remember this. Sixty percent of the people of South Carolina want it to come down. It's only the Republican candidates for president who are so scared of the extreme right wing that they will be tolerant of intolerance, lest they offend the offensive. It ought to come down. [applause]",
"Gore: I appreciate the support of Senator Ted Kennedy, Mr. Health Care in the Senate, in endorsing the health care approach that I've recommended as the best way to get to universal health insurance and to start by providing affordable high-quality health care for every child in America.",
"One way not to get there is by eliminating Medicaid and providing an inadequate $150-a-month voucher in its place. A couple of friends are here today that I met recently; Sheila Woods, who is African-American with a seven-year-old son, Diasi, and Isala Garcia, with a five-year-old daughter. Irjel, if you would stand also. Isala, gracias.",
"Both of their children get Medicaid. Both of them as parents would be eligible for health care under my plan. Neither they nor their children would get Medicaid under Senator Bradley's plan, and both of them would be given a $150-a-month voucher. And there is no plan available here in Iowa that you can buy for that that will give the prescription drug benefit that their children get now, the hearing and vision tests that they get now, and does not have a $4,000 expense out of their own — up to that out of their own pocket that they would have under the plan they would have to purchase in Iowa with the vouchers.",
"Gore: You can't — the fact remains, and the question hasn't been answered, where could they buy the health care benefit that they get right now with $150 a month? A weighted average means half or so of the states would get less than $150 a month. I haven't heard any mentioned that would get less than $150 a month.",
"And, you know, I told this story before, but a weighted average sounds like the guy who had his feet on a block of ice and his head in the oven, and according to the weighted average, he was comfortable. [laughter] It doesn't work out in real life that way. And I think that we have to have — you know, we have to build an America in which every single person has high-quality health care, starting with every child. [applause]",
"Gore: I believe that we need vigorous enforcement of the civil rights laws. I believe that we need to understand and operate on the assumption that we should have prenatal care, high-quality child care, universal preschool, adequate child nutrition, raise the minimum wage a dollar an hour, expand the earned-income tax credit, give access to higher education for every young person in this country, bring the crime rate down even further, much further in our neighborhoods, and care for every single child in this country; bring our people together with affirmative action, civil rights enforcement, and with leadership to put civil rights right at the top of our national agenda. [applause]",
"Gore: I said at the beginning of my campaign for president that on the first day of the Gore presidency, I would issue an executive order to ban racial profiling. And the first civil rights bill introduced from the White House of the year 2001 would be a bill outlawing racial profiling. There's a lot of pain out there in this country on the part of African-Americans and Latinos and Asian-Americans who feel as if they have been singled out unfairly, and sometimes in a very harsh way, because of the way they look. That is unacceptable, and it's not necessary in order to have good community policing.",
"Now, the fact is, we need more community police officers, more contacts between officers walking the beat and the leaders in each community. And we need more diverse police departments with African-Americans and Latinos and others represented fully on the police force — [applause] — so the police force understands the community well.",
"Gore: Let me say that I am very proud to be a part of the Clinton-Gore administration, which has broken every record for the inclusion of African-Americans and Latinos in Cabinet positions, White House positions, judgeships — [applause] — and high agency posts. I'm proud that here today are Secretary Alexis Herman, Secretary Rodney Slater, Secretary Bill Richardson. And we have been one of the most successful administrations in history, bringing about the strongest economy in history, not in spite of diversity but because of diversity.",
"If you entrust me with the presidency, I will seek to break that all-time record, not only because that's fair and right to have a government that looks like America, but because it is the best way to have a government that works well for America, that understands the challenges and sees the opportunities in every single community all across our land. It is past time for us to remove the old barriers, get past the old prejudices, and truly become one America, with respect for one another, embracing the highest common denominator of the human spirit. That's what America is all about. [applause]",
"Gore: I think that the question ought to be — I think the question ought to very simply what is in the best interests of this child. I think that the father should come here and stand on free soil to express the true feelings in his heart. I think we should remember and honor the fact that this child's mother lost her life, sacrificing her life in order to try to get her child freedom.",
"Now, if Castro keeps hiring these paid demonstrators to shout outside the father's window, how can we be sure that he is not speaking under the threat of intimidation? If he is not allowed to come here and speak freely, then the matter should be addressed in our domestic relations courts that have expertise and experience, and the body of law by which we traditionally answer those questions according to due process.",
"I want to compliment Congressman Bob Menendez of New Jersey who has helped to lead our nation's dialogue on this issue. As a father myself, I believe that we should focus on getting that father the right to say what is truly in his heart and then focus on what is truly best for the child.",
"Gore: I think that communist dictatorships are treated differently for a legitimate reason. I do think that underlying your question is the stark reality that in some times past Haitian immigrants have not been treated according to a fair standard, and I —",
"Gore: — I am glad — no, no — I would say the same of Chinese immigrants. And recently the child of a Haitian immigrant who had been sent back was returned when the INS reversed itself and applied the same standard there — which it should always do.",
"But I think that the law which singles out the pervasive effects of a communist dictatorship is a difference that is justified, and it has been reflected in some other situations where communist dictators have been calling the shots.",
"Gore: Dr. Mahone, I recognize you, and when you performed that medical miracle you made not only Iowa proud but the entire nation proud. [applause] And I think that it's fair to say that there were countless young African American girls and boys, and boys and girls of all backgrounds, who saw you on the national television screens at the very top of your profession demonstrating to one and all that there is nothing you don't know how to do in the field of medicine. And they thought to themselves, You know, I can do that, and I may set my sights on that. That is another benefit to our country, of reaching out to guarantee that we have medical school classes that look like America, and that youngsters can go into school in higher education and graduate school regardless of their family income. That's why I proposed a national tuition savings plan, and a 401(J) account, and measures to increase the funding to make sure that all young people have access to higher education, no matter what their family income is.",
"Gore: Make sure they get to the caucuses too.",
"I feel this challenge with all of my heart. I believe that it is right at the core of who we are as Americans. We are bound together not by any common ethnicity or race or language or national origin; we are bound together by a set of ideas and ideals. Even our Founders who wrote the Declaration and the Constitution underestimated the spiritual power of the words they gave us. Otherwise they would have freed their slaves and given women the right to vote as well as African Americans and Latinos. But in our generation we have been privileged to stand on their shoulders and expand the circle of human dignity.",
"I want to create an America in which our children and grandchildren will be able one day to look back on this time, at the start of this millennium, and say, We didn't yet understand the full mandate of the American dream. We have got work to do, and I want to lead this country toward a future that is bright and hopeful for all of the people. [applause]",
"Gore: I don't disagree with anything that Bill said on that. I was in Atlanta today. I spoke at Ebenezer Baptist Church at the invitation of Coretta Scott King on Martin Luther King Day. And while I was there I spoke to Andrew Young, and I was very impressed with what Andy Young and Hank Aaron had to say after their meeting with Mr. Rocker.",
"I think that if he has more meetings like that, and impresses more people the way he impressed them, he is going to be on the road toward receiving the forgiveness that he needs eventually. I think that America — first of all, I think what he said was reprehensible and disgusting, and I condemn it without any reservation, of course.",
"I think America is all about redemption. And part of the message of Dr. King is to love your enemies and plant the seeds of reconciliation in their hearts. For some racism may be a form of mental illness. For others it is simply a manifestation of evil that they have the ability to transcend and overcome with love, forgiveness and redemption. [applause]",
"Gore: Well, I did meet with him in a group of quite a few ministers and religious and clergy leaders —",
"Gore: — in New York. Well, the — you guys were out front covering us as we came in and went out, and we had a good dialogue, and I have talked to him previously. And so I was not hesitant to do that, and I'll take it as it goes along.",
"Gore: Let me unequivocal and clear: I support Iowa having the first caucuses and New Hampshire having the first primary. [applause] And let me point out that thanks to Wayne and others, out of all of the 30-some-odd caucuses and primaries, Iowa is the only one that has or has had a black and brown debate for all of the candidates. [applause and cheers] And let me point out also that the first baby born of the millennium here in Iowa was an African American child, and the first born in Des Moines was a Latino child. [applause] And I want to congratulate Governor Vilsack and the first lady, Chrissy Vilsack, for their inclusion and leadership here. And I want to point out for the listening audience that today is the first time, because of the Democratic leadership of Governor Jean Shaheen in New Hampshire that New Hampshire has at long last celebrated the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, and I congratulate New Hampshire. [applause]",
"Gore: Well, actually the administration does have a permanent follow-up to that commission that is pursuing all of the matters that were explored by the commission. Let me say that if you entrust me with the presidency, I will see this challenge as a sacred undertaking, because I believe that bringing our nation together is the key to our future prosperity and the key to our ability to lead fulfilling lives as Americans. We live in a diverse world in a global economy. Diversity is a precious advantage for us. I want to unlock our potential.",
