"GORE: Let me just finish, if I could.",
"GORE: There are seven million disabled Americans who rely on Medicaid, many of them to get out of bed each morning--hold on one second. Half of the people with AIDS and two-thirds of all the seniors in nursing homes rely on Medicaid. He eliminates it, and he doesn't save a penny for Medicare.",
"GORE: ...what he replaces it with is...",
"GORE: ...proposes to replace it with...",
"GORE: Are vouchers that are limited to $150 a month.",
"GORE: And he says buy into the federal employee benefit plan. Ninety-five percent of all the health insurance plans that are part of the Federal Employee Benefit Plan have premiums that are far in excess of $150 a month.",
"GORE: Well, Tim...",
"GORE: Tim, let me make a point on this. Look, this is Bill Bradley's Web site. You can go to it and check it right now. Here's what it says. \"States will assume responsibility for institutional long-term care and assisting low-income elderly.\" Now...",
"GORE: Not in your plan, Bill.",
"GORE: That's not what his plan does, Tim.",
"GORE: ...88 percent, 89 percent, the difference is...",
"GORE: ...that Bill's plan devotes two-thirds of the money to people who already have health insurance. And he hasn't responded to the fact that those who now get Medicaid would be given $150 a month and you cannot buy anything approaching Medicaid benefits--what about the people with AIDS?",
"GORE: What about those that are disabled?",
"GORE: Now...",
"GORE: That's not in my book.",
"GORE: No.",
"GORE: No. Not raising the retirement age.",
"GORE: Well, I certainly didn't.",
"GORE: No, I voted against raising the retirement age.",
"GORE: You think we ought to consider raising the retirement age?",
"GORE: OK.",
"GORE: You know, the so-called elite opinion is that it's fine to raise the retirement age. That's a tough choice. Listen, if you've got a waitress carrying trays at the age of 65, if you've got somebody on a jackhammer or if you've got somebody who's a steelworker who is in hard, physical labor, I am not going to tell that person that he or she has to wait another five years to get Medicare and Social Security.",
"GORE: Oh.",
"GORE: Well, I'd like to comment on the same subject, if I could.",
"GORE: You know, I favor competition, Bill. I favor competition within the public school system. I favor more choice for parents to send their children to whatever school they want to send them to. But the reason I oppose vouchers, Tim, is because even if you say it's not going to come from public school budgets, it does because history shows, experience shows there's a set amount of money that communities have been willing to spend on education. And if you drain the money away from the public schools for private vouchers, then that hurts the public schools. Now, Bill, every time...",
"GORE: It means that it drain money away from public schools.",
"GORE: Now, let me--I didn't interrupt you, Bill. Let me just finish now. Every time the Republicans proposed vouchers for 18 years, Senator Bradley supported it. Every time the Republicans proposed vouchers when I was in the Congress, I opposed them. I have said this, and I'll repeat it on this show, that investments in improving education in a revolutionary way represents the single most important priority for our future.",
"GORE: But...",
"GORE: Well...",
"GORE: No, as a matter of fact, I'm not.",
"GORE: OK. Here's the second part of the proposal.",
"GORE: In 30-second commercials?",
"GORE: Well, look, here's my proposal, Bill.",
"GORE: Well, I haven't...",
"GORE: Well, hold on a second here.",
"GORE: Yeah.",
"GORE: Well, you know, I haven't had to apologize yet.",
"GORE: I accept your apology for...",
"GORE: Nor have you called upon me to...",
"GORE: ...because I haven't given you to cause to. But at the beginning of the show...",
"GORE: No, I don't...",
"GORE: ...because I have never launched a personal negative attack and I never will. And I accept your apology at the beginning of the show. But here's my proposal. Let's debate twice a week from now until the nomination is decided and just go face to face about the issues and get rid of all these television and radio commercials. Why not do that?",
"GORE: That's not what I'm doing.",
"GORE: Look, we could call this the MEET THE PRESS agreement. We could have two debates every single week and get rid of all of the television and radio commercials. I'm willing to do it right now if you'll shake on it.",
"GORE: Debates aren't tactics. It's how we discuss issues.",
"GORE: Look, I'm ready to agree right now.",
"GORE: Debates aren't ploys.",
"GORE: Absolutely. I will never run a personal negative attack against you.",
"GORE: Absolutely.",
"GORE: Because all the Republicans voted against it.",
"GORE: And they controlled the Senate.",
"GORE: We got every single Democratic senator to vote for it.",
"GORE: Tim...",
"GORE: ...can I make one other point on this?",
"GORE: I want to make one other point on this. I have fought for this for 20 years. Bill went 17 years in the United States Senate before he ever sponsored a campaign-finance reform bill. Only after announcing his retirement and heading out to run for president did he sponsor a bill on this issue. I started talking about this and arguing for this more than 20 years ago.",
"We got every single Democratic senator to support sweeping campaign-finance reform. The Republicans defeated it. Now, all of us have made mistakes. Bill was cited by a New Jersey newspaper for what they said in their editorial were nauseating excesses on this. He has the largest average contribution in this Democratic race. He has all of the CEOs of the major pharmaceutical companies supporting him. I mean, look, the way to stop this...",
"GORE: Now, wait a minute. The way to stop this...",
"GORE: I want to finish, Bill. I didn't interrupt you. The way to stop this--let me repeat-- is to take the single biggest expense--more than half of all the money that is raised and spent goes to these little 30-second television and radio ads. I'm willing to stop them entirely right now. You have rejected that.",
"GORE: Was it a mistake?",
"GORE: ...in Kosovo.",
"GORE: He opposed the expansion--opposed the...",
"GORE: I understand. But we're going to insist upon stopping the flows of technology.",
