"GRAHAM: One, thanks, CNN, for having people at this debate. [laughter] I'm Lindsey Graham from South Carolina, in case you can't tell. I want to thank Ms. Reagan (ph) for inviting me. It means the world to me. I'm the only candidate tonight who served in the military while Ronald Reagan was our president and our commander in chief. It was one of the highlights of my life.",
"I'm running for president to destroy radical Islam, to win the war on terror, to protect you and your family.",
"And in that quest, I have an uncompromising determination to win this war, just like President Reagan had an uncompromising determination to destroy the evil empire, and win the Cold War.",
"Above all others on both sides of the isle, I'm most qualified to be commander and chief on day one -- 33 years in the Air Force, 35 trips to Iraq and Afghanistan, I understand this war. I have a plan to win it, and I intend to win it. [applause]",
"GRAHAM: Well, all I can say, if you looked at polling in 2012 and 2008 at this level, we'd have -- at this stage, we would have President Perry and President Giuliani. I have a long way to go.",
"And here's what I'm going to try to do tonight -- convince you that I'm best qualified to be the commander-in-chief of the one percent who are doing the fighting for the rest of us. And we'll have a serious discussion tonight.",
"All of us are going to say we want to destroy ISIL.",
"But here's what I'm going to tell you. What we're doing is not working. I have a plan to do it. If I'm president of the United States, we're going to send more ground forces into Iraq because we have to. President Obama made a huge mistake by leaving too soon against sound military advice.",
"To every candidate tonight, are you willing to commit before the American people that you will destroy ISIL and you understand we need a ground force to do it?",
"Are you willing -- Jake, please ask everybody the following question.",
"Would you go from 3,500 to 10,000 American boots on the ground in Iraq to destroy ISIL?",
"Because if you don't, we're going to lose.",
"Are you willing to send American combat forces into Syria as part of a regional army, because if you don't, we'll never destroy ISIL in Syria.",
"If you're not ready to these things you're not ready to be commander-in-chief.",
"GRAHAM: Well, what I hope Republican voters, libertarian, vegetarians, Democrats, you name it, will look for somebody to lead us in a new direction, domestically, but particularly on the foreign policy front.",
"President Obama is making a mess of the world. What I'm trying to tell you here tonight, that Syria is hell on Earth and it's not going to get fixed by insulting each other. I've been there 35 times to Iraq and Afghanistan. I am ready to be commander-in-chief on day one.",
"I've been in the military 33 years, 140 days on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan. I am so ready to get on with winning a war that we can't afford to lose.",
"I hope you believe that experience matters. It's an all- volunteer force of -- when you vote for commander-in-chief, they are stuck with your choice. We've had one novice being commander-in- chief. Let's don't replace one novice with another.",
"And if I thought...",
"GRAHAM: -- I could win this war without more American ground forces in Iraq and Syria, I would tell you, but we can't...",
"GRAHAM: -- and if we don't get on with this, they are coming here.",
"GRAHAM: Thank you.",
"GRAHAM: Probably for a good reason.",
"GRAHAM: Well, let's talk about immigration. Number one, I like Rick. I don't remember the Santorum plan when I was in the Senate.",
"The peanut gallery on this is interesting. I have been trying to solve this problem for a decade. There are no democrats here tonight. If you're here, raise your hand. You went to the wrong -- we'll, welcome. Thank you very much for coming. [laughter]",
"[crosstalk]",
"GRAHAM: The bottom line, I'm trying to pitch the problem. We're not going to deport 11 million people here illegally, but we'll start with felons, and off they go. And, as to the rest, you can stay, but you got to learn our language. I don't speak it very well, well, look how far I've come? [laughter] Speaking English is a good thing. You got to pay taxes, you got to pay a fine, you got to get in the back of the line. You've got to secure your border or they'll keep coming. If you don't control who gets a job that never ends -- so (ph) got two borders. One with Canadia -- Canada, one with Mexico. I never met an illegal Canadian.",
"This is an economic problem, so, folks, let's solve it. Amnesty is doing nothing, and that's what we've been doing.",
"As to birthright citizenship, once we clean up this mess, in the future, prospectively, I'm going to look at the following. There are people buying tourist visas that go to resorts with maternity wards with the expressed purpose of having a children here in America. There are rich Asians, there are rich people up in the Mid-East...",
"GRAHAM: ...That to me is bastardizing citizenship...",
"GRAHAM: ...Yeah, I'd like to stop that in the future...",
"TAPPER(?): Governor Pataki, I'd just want to...",
"GRAHAM: ...What do you do with the 11 million?",
"GRAHAM: ...What are you going to do with the 11 million?",
"GRAHAM: ...Well, what about the other half...",
"GRAHAM: ...How many democrats support yourplan...",
"GRAHAM: ...How many democrats did you have on your bill?",
"GRAHAM: ...I can tell you. None.",
"GRAHAM: ...That went nowhere.",
"GRAHAM: ...George W. Bush...",
"GRAHAM: ...Who won with hispanics.",
"GRAHAM: ...Compared to what we're doing...",
"GRAHAM: ...Hispanics...",
"GRAHAM: ...Are Americans...",
"GRAHAM: [applause]...In my world, hispanics are Americans...",
"GRAHAM: ...I have a little different take on where the country is going on this issue. Number one, in 1950, there were 16 workers for every retiree. How many are there today? There's three. In 20 years, there's going to be two, and you're going to have 80 million baby boomers like me retiree in mass wanting a Social Security check, and their Medicare bills paid.",
"We're going to need more legal immigration. Let's just make it logical. Let's pick people from all over the world on our terms, not just somebody from Mexico. Let's create a rational, legal immigration system because we have a declining workforce.",
"GRAHAM: ...Strom Thurmond had four kids after he was 67, if you're not willing to do that, we've got to come up with a new legal immigration system. [applause]",
"GRAHAM: Yes, number one, how does President Obama sleep at night?",
"Look what you let happen on your watch. Your commanders told you, don't withdrawal from Iraq because we'll lose of our gains.",
"Three years ago your entire national security team, Senator McCain and I begged you to do a no-fly zone and help the Free Syrian Army while it would matter. But you said no.",
"I'm not blaming Bobby, I'm not blaming Rick, I'm not blaming anybody, I'm blaming Barack Obama for this mess.",
"GRAHAM: Right.",
"GRAHAM: I'm saying this, if they don't understand that Barack Obama's policies are not working, that we're not going to destroy ISIL in Iraq and Syria from the air, they are not ready.",
"What have I learned in 35 trips? I learned what works and what doesn't.",
"We were in a good spot in Iraq, President Bush made mistakes but he adjusted. To those who fought in Iraq, you did your job and Barack Obama wasted it all.",
"Now we're in a spot where, if we don't destroy ISIL soon, they are coming here. There are 3,500 American boots on the ground. You would never know it, hearing your president, but we need about 10,000 to turn the tide of battle in Iraq. Then there is nobody left, Dana, to train inside of Syria.",
"We spent $50 million training 54 people and they are down to four or five. They have been slaughtered. So we're going to need a regional army, the turks, the Jordanians, the Saudis, the Egyptians get their armies up together and 90 percent of it will be them. They're going to pay for this war because we paid for the last two.",
"But 10 percent at least will have to be us and we're going in on the ground and we're going to pull the caliphate up by its roots and we're going to kill every one of these bastards we can find because, if we don't, they are coming here. [applause]",
"GRAHAM: -- does that include American ground forces in Syria as part of a regional army?",
"Are all of you willing to commit to American ground forces going into Syria as part of a regional army to destroy the caliphate and its headquarters?",
"GRAHAM: Well, you know, Kim Davis, I'm not worried about her attacking me. I am worried about radical Islamic terrorists who are already here planning another 9/11.",
"We're at war, folks. I'm not fighting a crime. I want to have a legal system that understands the difference between fighting a war and fighting a crime, and here's the reality. Young men from the Mid- East are different than Kim Davis. And we've got to understand that.",
"GRAHAM: Islamic websites need to be monitored.",
"GRAHAM: And if you are on one, I want to know what you're doing.",
"GRAHAM: I wasn't the best law student. By the end of this debate, it would be the most time I've ever spent in any library. [laughter]",
"But on the first day in law school view (ph), it's called \"Marbury v. Madison.\" The group in our constitutional democracy that interprets \"The Constitution\" as to what it means is the Supreme Court. In a 5-4 decision by the Supreme Court, they have ruled that same-sex marriage bans at the state level violate the Fourteenth Amendment to \"The United States Constitution\" equal protection clause.",
"I don't agree with it, but that is the law of the land. But as president, what I want make sure of is that everybody in this room, Christian, Jewish, Muslim, whatever religion that you can practice your faith without government interference, you can marry people consistent with the tenets of your faith. That's the number one obligation of my presidency, is to protect religious people when they exercise their religious rights.",
"But this decision is the law as it is of right now.",
"And here's the one thing I want to tell you, Jake.",
"GRAHAM: Wait -- wait a minute.",
"Whether you're the wedding cake baker or the gay couple or the Baptist preacher, radical Islam would kill you all if they could.",
"GRAHAM: Let's don't lose sight of the big picture here.",
"GRAHAM: He's one of the most qualified men to ever come before the United States Senate and I don't agree with his decision, but 99 times out of 100, I will.",
"To the Republicans, the biggest prize on the table in 2017 is the presidency. If it is Hillary Clinton, Joe Biden or Bernie Sanders, they are going to pick people that we will disagree with all the time.",
"Please understand, we have to win this election. The court's at stake. It is the most important reason for us to turn out, to make sure we don't lose the judiciary for decades to come. [applause]",
"GRAHAM: I've been called a lot of things but never elite before. My dad owned a liquor store, a bar and a poolroom.",
"So only in America can you go from the back of a liquor store to being an elite.",
"GRAHAM: I introduced her at a conference about Africa. I thought Secretary Clinton did a good job when it came to dealing with our problems in Africa, particularly among women. George W. Bush set $40 billion aside and Rick Santorum helped him and President Bush wiped out an entire -- wiped out AIDS and malaria for an entire generation of young African children.",
"Secretary Clinton -- [applause] -- Secretary Clinton did a good -- here's my problem with Secretary Clinton.",
"Where the hell were you on the night of the Benghazi attack?",
"How did you let it become a death threat to begin with?",
"And why did you lie about what happened to these people?",
"And if you want a new change in terms of foreign policy, don't pick her, because she's his secretary of state.",
"I've got a real good chance of beating her, because I don't say things bad about her all the time -- just when she deserves it. And her definition of flat broke and mine are a little bit different.",
"GRAHAM: Well, Ronald Reagan did a couple of really big things that we should all remember.",
"He sat down with Tip O'Neill, the most liberal guy in the entire House. They started drinking together. That's the first thing I'm going to do as president. We're going to drink more. [applause]",
"And what did this -- two great Irishmen do? They found a way to save Social Security from bankruptcy by adjusting the age of retirement from 65 to 67.",
"So, yes, I will say nice things at times about Democrats. Yes, I will work them -- work with them. [laughter]",
"I will put the country ahead of party. Absolutely I want to work with them. At the end of the day, Hugh, I'm lucky to be standing here. I'm the first in my family to ever go to college. Neither one of my parents finished high school. Darline's here with me tonight. We owned a restaurant...",
"GRAHAM: Well, wait a minute. We...",
"GRAHAM: You asked me a question. This is important. Republicans need to tell the American people we get it as to who you are.",
"When my mom died, I was 21. When my dad died, when I was 22. We were wiped out financially. If it weren't for Social Security survivor benefit check coming into Darline, we wouldn't have made it. I don't need a lecture from Democrats about Social Security.",
"GRAHAM: I want to save it, just like Ronald Reagan did. [applause]",
"GRAHAM: If you want to see manufacturing, come to South Carolina...",
"GRAHAM: ...We'll show 'ya.",
"GRAHAM: Well, I know this. That when my mom and dad owned a restaurant, the bar, the pool room, that if you increased the minimum wage it'd been hard to hire more people.",
"Hillary Clinton has a list a mile long to help the middle class. We're talking all around this. The middle class for the last six and a half years has been squeezed, and squeezed hard.",
"To the middle class, I understand who you are. You're one broken down car from not going on vacation. You're from one sick child away from having to change your whole budget.",
"Here's what I want to do as your president. I want to grow this economy. When Boeing came to South Carolina to build a 787, everybody paid more they would have lost their employees to Boeing. If you're a waitress out there wanting more money, I'm not going to increase the minimum wage, I'm going to try to create an environment where somebody else will open up a restaurant across the street to hire you away at a higher rate, or they'll have to pay you more to keep you.",
"You got to borrow money to create jobs in this country. Banking is locked down because of Dodd-Frank. The tax code is a complete mess, but nobody's talked about the elephant in the room, which is debt. Not one more penny to the federal government until w2e come up with a plan to get out of debt.",
"GRAHAM: It's probably a small bit, but the ones that get it...",
"GRAHAM: Yeah, but I...",
"GRAHAM: ...Have you ever thought why all of us say that...",
"GRAHAM: If I believed they were trying to break out and get a bomb, absolutely. And here's the most important thing: they know I would if I had to.",
"And none of us are going to be able to defend this country adequately until we rebuild our military. A weak economy, a military in decline, the world on fire, does that sound familiar to you?",
"Michael, does that sound familiar to you?",
"The first thing I'm going to do as commander in chief on day one is call the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs and say, what do you need that you don't have?",
"We're cutting our military; we're on track to have the smallest Army since 1940, the smallest Navy since 1915 and John Kasich says he wants to close more bases. I want to rebuild our military and I want the Iranians to know that, if I had to, I would use it.",
"The worst nightmare in the world is a radical Islamic regime with a weapon of mass destruction. The only reason 3,000 of us died on 9/11 is not 3 million, not 3 million is because they couldn't get the weapons to kill us. They're on track to get a bomb even if they don't cheat.",
"This deal is a nightmare for Israel. They are coming here if we don't watch it terrorism with a nuclear capability sponsored by Iran. So, yes, I would use military force to stop them. I would set this deal aside and I would get you a better deal.",
"If you gave $100 billion, I could get almost anybody out of jail. We couldn't even get our hostages out of jail.",
"GRAHAM: Do you think Putin would be in the Ukraine or Syria today if Ronald Reagan were president? No.",
"This is what happens when you have a weak, unqualified commander- in-chief who doesn't understand the role America plays in the world.",
"Why is it bad for you that Russia's helping Assad? He's the magnet for Sunni extremists. The Syrian people are not going to accept him as their legitimate leader.",
"By Assad being helped by Russia, it means the war never ends. It means the next 9/11, which is most likely to occur from an attack from Syria. It's more likely.",
"At the end of the day, if I'm president of the United States, I've told you what I'm going to do. There's nobody left in Syria to train. We're going to get a regional army who doesn't like ISIL, who won't accept Assad, because he's a puppet of Iran. We're going in the ground, and we're going to destroy the caliphate, pull it up by roots, and we're going to hold the territory.",
"This is a slap in a face from Putin to Kerry and Obama. Assad must go. If he doesn't go, this war never ends...",
"GRAHAM: ... and if the war in Syria continues, it is coming here.",
"For God's sakes, let's get on with...",
"GRAHAM: ... with fixing the problem in Syria.",
"GRAHAM: Bobby, you were in the Congress, and all I can tell you, to everybody here, if you want to repeal Obamacare, get a new president. If you want to defund Planned Parenthood, elect a pro-life president, because that's the only way.",
"If we pass the Cardin bill, Graham, Menendez, it would go to the president. He would veto it. 67 votes are required to override the veto.",
"GRAHAM: Wait a minute. Now, you asked me a question. So I don't want to take off the table the ability to slow down Obama in his last 13 to 14 months, because I want 60 votes to stop what I think he's going to do between now and January 2017. Five Republicans deflect -- leave -- we're in trouble.",
"So folks, the world really is the way it is. President Obama is president. The goal is to get him out of there and pick somebody who would actually do something to repeal Obamacare, who would get you a better agreement.",
"So Bobby, he would veto the bill, we don't have 67 votes, and you're giving away a defense against Obama for the rest of his presidency.",
"No, I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to tell you things I can't do. I'm not going to tell you by shutting the government down, we're going to defund Obamacare as long as he's president. All that does is hurt us. I am trying to lead this party to winning.",
"GRAHAM: Are you going to shut the government down?",
"GRAHAM: Are you going to shut the government...",
"GRAHAM: Can I just say something? [applause]",
"You know, Bobby, we're running to be president of the United States, the most important job in the free world. With it comes a certain amount of honesty. I'm tired of telling people things they want to hear that I know we can't do.",
"He is not going to sign a bill that would defund ObamaCare. If I am president of the United States, I wouldn't put one penny in -- in my budget for Planned Parenthood, not one penny. I'm as offended by these videos as you are.",
"But the one thing I'm not going to do going into 2016 is shut the government down and tank our ability to win. What you're saying and what Senator Cruz is saying, I am really sick of hearing, trying to get the bottom...",
"GRAHAM: -- the Republican Party in a position...",
"GRAHAM: -- to win. That's what I'm trying to do. And that does matter to me [inaudible]...",
"GRAHAM: It matters a lot.",
"GRAHAM: Well, number one, I will win a war that we can't afford to lose. I have a plan to destroy radical Islam because it has to be. These are religious Nazis running while President Obama has made one mistake after another and it's caught up with us.",
"What do I have to offer that's different?",
"I get my foreign policy from being in on the ground. I've been to Iraq and Afghanistan in the Middle East 35 times in the last decade, trying to understand how we got in this mess.",
"Our leading candidate gets his foreign policy from watching television.",
"And what I heard last night is the Cartoon Network, oh, I'm big, I'm strong, we're going to hit them in the head. [laughter]",
"GRAHAM: That's not foreign policy. That's a cartoon character.",
"John Kasich, a good friend of mine, said in New Hampshire, we're going to close more bases on his watch.",
"On my watch, we're going to open up more bases. The military is in decline, folks. We're going to have the smallest military in modern times, spending half of what we'd normally spend by the end of this decade.",
"GRAHAM: What do I offer? What do I offer?",
"To make your families safe and our country strong again, a vision and a determination to win a war that we cannot afford to lose."
