"GRAHAM:": [
"GRAHAM: Well, number one, thank you for having me here tonight.",
"How about a round of applause for Boulder, Colorado?",
"This is a beautiful place. [applause]",
"Looking at their academic standards, the only way I could have gotten into this university is to be invited to this debate tonight. [laughter]",
"But here's my take on things. Without national security, there is no economic security. Without the sacrifice of the veteran, all of our hopes and dreams are at risk.",
"Just a few days ago, Hillary Clinton said that the problems with the V.A. are being exaggerated by Republicans. They are not, they are real.",
"GRAHAM: Well, let me tell you what is real. The threat to our homeland. I've never seen so many threats to our homeland than I do today. Barack Obama is an incompetent Commander in Chief. There are more terrorist organizations with safe havens to attack the American homeland than anytime since 9/11. We're in the process of reducing our defense spending by half.",
"I am looking at this budget with one view in mind, will it restore the ability to defend this nation. We're on track to have the smallest army since 1940, the smallest navy since 1915, this budget, if it is paid for, will put $40 billion dollars back in the defense department at a time we need it.",
"The number one role of the federal government's to defend this nation, I intend to be a Commander in Chief that can win a war we cannot afford to lose.",
"GRAHAM: Here's the problem. We're being walked all over because our commander in chief is weak in the eyes of our enemies. Do you think Putin would be in the Ukraine today if Ronald Reagan were president? Why are the Chinese stealing our intellectual property, hacking into our system? Why are they building islands over resource-rich waters? Because they can get away with it.",
"At the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, the foreign policy of Barack Obama needs to be replaced, and the last person you want to find to replace his foreign policy is his secretary of state.",
"So to the Chinese, when it comes to dealing with me, you've got a clenched fist or an open hand. You pick. The party's over, to all the dictators. Make me commander-in-chief and this crap stops. [applause]",
"CRAMER: Thank you, Senator.",
"Senator Santorum. We know that a troubling amount of air pollution on the west coast comes from China. Should we enact a pollution tax on products imported from China and give our manufacturers a level playing field?",
"GRAHAM: No, I — I think I'm trying to solve problems that somebody had better solve.",
"Now, you don't have to believe that climate change is real. I have been to the Antarctic. I've been to Alaska. I'm not a scientist, and I've got the grades to prove it. [laughter]",
"But I've talked to the climatologists of the world, and 90 percent of them are telling me that greenhouse gas effect is real. That we're heating up the planet. I just want a solution that would be good for the economy, that doesn't destroy it.",
"I want to fix an immigration system. I'm not gonna tell you, if you like your doctor, you can keep it — keep him. Do you like your health care, you're gonna keep it. I'm tired of telling people things that they want to hear, that we know we're not gonna do.",
"We're not gonna eliminate the corporate tax. But we can make it lower. We're going to fix immigration, only if we work together. I want to secure the border because, if we don't, we're going to get hurt and hit again.",
"I want to fix a broken visa system. I want to increase legal immigration, because we're gonna have a shortage of workers over time. As to the 11 million, I want to talk about fixing the problem. We're not going to deport 11 million people and their legal citizen children.",
"But we will deport felons. And those who stay will have to learn our language to stay, because I don't speak it well but look how far I've come.",
"[crosstalk]",
"GRAHAM: At the end of the day, folks, I am trying to solve a problem and win an election. I am tired of losing.",
"Good God, look who we're running against. The number one candidate on the other side thought she was flat broke after her and her husband were in the White House for eight years. The number two guy went to the Soviet Union on his honeymoon and I don't think he ever came back. [laughter]",
"If we don't beat these people, who the hell are we going to beat?",
"[crosstalk]",
"UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Senator, you're well over your minute but thank you for that.",
"We will be back from Boulder, Colorado, in just a moment.",
"[commercial break]",
"GRAHAM: The first thing...",
"GRAHAM: — that we have to do is come to grips with the reality that we're facing as Americans. In 1950, there were 16 workers for every Social Security recipient. Today, there's three. In 20 years, there are two.",
"I want to make sure that no American company leaves America because you can't find a worker.",
"American workers always get the first preference. But if you can't find an American worker, after you advertise at a competitive wage, I don't want you to be at a loss. Bring people in based on merit. Let's take a broken immigration...",
"GRAHAM: — system...",
"GRAHAM: — and make a merit-based immigration system that will help our economy. We're going to need workers in the future.",
"GRAHAM: Let's just choose rationally.",
"GRAHAM: We owe to every businessperson and worker in America the best environment in the world to create a job. We owe that to American businesses. Thirty-five percent corporate tax rate is the second highest in the world.",
"We need to lower it so they don't leave. The goal is to help the middle class. We can talk about corporations all day long but my goal is to help the middle class, somebody who makes too much to be on government assistance but still lives paycheck to paycheck.",
"When the kid gets sick you don't go on vacation.",
"[crosstalk]",
"GRAHAM: That's the purpose of my presidency, to grow the economy here. And let me tell you, our Democratic friends have a list a mile long of more government. That's not going to grow the middle class, that's going to create a burden on your children, which they're already overburdened. The best way to grow the middle class is to make it a good place to create a job.",
"You know why Boeing came to South Carolina when they could have gone anywhere to build the 787?",
"Because we wanted them. We had a low-tax structure.",
"GRAHAM: A permitting structure that allowed them to build the building even faster than they thought they could build it. We welcomed them there. I'm going to take the South Carolina attitude —",
"GRAHAM: I think everybody owes an obligation to the country. The ones that I'm most worried about are the 1 percent of Americans in uniform, who have been fighting this war for 14 years. They need a commander in chief who knows what the hell they're doing.",
"My first job as President of the United States is to rebuild the military and use it smartly. Admiral Mullen said the debt is a big threat to our national security. He's right. But people go where they're welcome when it comes to job creation.",
"If I'm President of the United States you will be welcomed in America.",
"GRAHAM: This will be the place to come —",
"GRAHAM: And if I'm president of the United States —",
"GRAHAM: — our enemies —",
"GRAHAM: Well, number one, Social Security is not just a concept to me. I know why it exists; 50 percent of today's seniors would be in poverty without a Social Security check. I promise you, if you make me your president, I will save Social Security because I know why it exists.",
"Now, if you're looking for good beer policy, I'm your best bet. My dad owned a bar. [laughter]",
"I know beer. We grew up, my sister and myself, in the back of that bar in one room with my mom, my dad and my sister who's nine years younger. When I was 21, my mom was diagnosed with Hodgkin's disease. Neither parent finished high school. She died within a year. We were wiped out from the medical bills. And if it wasn't for a Social Security survivor benefit check coming into my family, we wouldn't' have made it because my dad died 15 months later.",
"So I...",
"EPPERSON: But Senator Graham...",
"GRAHAM: Wait a minute, please. I'm 22 and we're wiped out. I am 60. I'm not married. I have a military retirement. I'm in good shape. I would give up some of my benefits to help those who need it more than I do.",
"To young people here, I will ask you to work a little bit longer because we have to. The purpose of my presidency is to save this country and to save Social Security by working across the aisle just like Ronald Reagan. This is the biggest issue facing this nation.",
"EPPERSON: Thank you, Senator Graham. Thank you, Senator Graham.",
"Governor Jindal, you've been a strong supporter of for-profit colleges. These are institutions that educate many veterans, minorities and working class Americans. They make up about 11 percent of the college population at these schools, but they account for 44 percent of student loan defaults. Should for-profit schools be held accountable when they take taxpayer money and leave students deep in debt?",
"GRAHAM: Well, number one, the only reason I have an iPhone is because I gave my number to Donald Trump. Don't do that. [laughter]",
"UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Governor...",
"GRAHAM: Donald has done more to upgrade my technology than my whole staff.",
"Number one, Fox News. Sorry about CNBC. [laughter]",
"We're in a Republican primary here.",
"UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thanks. Thanks a lot.",
"GRAHAM: Well, I think a national holiday would be the day that commander-in-chief Barack Obama doesn't have that job. [applause]",
"But unlike these other three, I want to win New Hampshire. Go Tom Brady. Go Patriots. [laughter]",
"Sorry, Colorado is late in the...",
"UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Panderer.",
"[crosstalk]",
"GRAHAM: Somebody said — or maybe I saw it on the bill of a cap — that let's make America great again. [laughter]",
"America is great. [applause]",
"I intend to make America strong again. I'm going to be the champion of the middle class, where I came from. If you make me your president, our best days are ahead. I'm ready to be commander- in-chief, ladies and gentlemen, on day one. I intend to war — win a war that we cannot afford to lose.",
"I will be a commander-in-chief worthy of the sacrifice of those brave Americans who have been defending our nation. They have had our back. God knows, they have had our back...",
"GRAHAM: — and I intend to have their back as commander-in- chief. Make me commander-in-chief."
