"GRAHAM: You can trust me to do the following: that when I get on change with Hillary Clinton, we won't be debating about the science, we'll be debating about the solutions. In her world, cap- and-trade would dominate, that we will destroy the economy in the name of helping the environment. In my world, we'll focus on energy independence and a clean environment.",
"When it comes to fossil fuels, we're going to find more here and use less. Over time, we're going to become energy independent. I am tired of sending $300 billion overseas to buy oil from people who hate our guts. The choice between a weak economy and a strong environment is a false choice, that is not the choice I'll offer America.",
"A healthy environment, a strong economy and energy independent America -- that would be the purpose of my presidency, is break the strangle hold that people enjoy on fossil fuels who hate our guts.",
"GRAHAM: If we don't stop them over there, they are coming here just as sure as I stand here in front of you.",
"One thing I want to be clear about tonight. If you're running for president of the United States and you don't understand that we need more American ground forces in Iraq and that America has to be part of a regional ground force that will go into Syria and destroy ISIL in Syria, then you're not ready to be commander in chief. And you're not serious about destroying ISIL.",
"According to the generals that I know and trust, this air campaign will not destroy ISIL. We need a ground force in Iraq and Syria, and America has to be part of that ground force. According to the FBI and the director of national intelligence, Syria's becoming a perfect platform to strike our nation. I've got a very simple strategy as your president against ISIL. Whatever it takes, as long as it takes, to defeat them.",
"GRAHAM: Right.",
"GRAHAM: I think America is dying to work, you just need to give them a chance. To all the Americans who want a better life, don't vote for Hillary Clinton. You're not going to get it. She's not going to repeal \"Obamacare\" and replace it. I will. She's not going to build the Keystone Pipeline. I will. She's not going to change Dodd-Frank. I will.",
"Until you change the policies of Barack Obama, we're never going to grow this economy. Until you change the policies of Barack Obama, we're never going to be safe. She represents a third term of a failed presidency.",
"I'm fluent in Clinton-speak; I've been dealing with this crowd for 20 years. You know, when Bill Clinton says it depends on what the meaning of is is, that means is is whatever Bill wants it to mean. When Hillary Clinton tells you I've given you all the emails you need, that means she hasn't. So to the people who are dying for a better America, you better change course, and she doesn't represent the change that we need.",
"Do we all agree that ISIL is not the JV team? If I have to monitor a mosque, I'll monitor a mosque. If I have to take down a cyber wall, I'll take it. If I have to send more American troops to protect us here, I will do it. She will not. She has empowered a failed agenda. She is going to empower a failed solution to an American economy dying to grow.",
"Elect me, I know the difference between being flat broke. Apparently, she doesn't. In Hillary Clinton's world, after two terms in the White House where her husband was president, she said she was flat broke. Hillary, I'll show you flat broke. That's not it.",
"GRAHAM: I don't think it's a war on women for all of us as Americans to stand up and stop harvesting organs from little babies. Let's take the money that we would give to Planned Parenthood and put it in women's health care without having to harvest the organs of the unborn. The only way we're going to defund Planned Parenthood is have a pro-life president.",
"You want to see a war on women? Come with me to Iraq and Afghanistan, folks. I've been there 35 times. I will show you what they do to women. These mythical Arab armies that my friends talk about that are going to protect us don't exist. If I am president of the United States, we're going to send soldiers back to Iraq, back to Syria, to keep us from being attacked here and keep soldiers in Afghanistan because we must.",
"I cannot tell you how much our nation is threatened and how we need a commander in chief who understands the threats to this nation.",
"If you're running for president of the United States and you do not understand that we cannot defend this nation without more of our soldiers over there, you are not ready for this job.",
"GRAHAM: Change the Mexico City policy, not take one dime of taxpayer money to fund abortion organizations overseas, and restore the NSA that's been gutted. We're going dark when it comes to detecting the next attack. We have gutted our ability to detect the next attack. And I would not stand for that as president of the United States. I would take the fight to these guys, whatever it took, as long as it took.",
"GRAHAM: Thank you.",
"First thing I'd tell the American people, whatever it takes to defend our nation, I would do.",
"To the 1 percent who have been fighting this war for over a decade, I'd try my best to be a commander-in-chief worthy of your sacrifice.",
"We're going to lose Social Security and Medicare if Republicans and Democrats do not come together and find a solution like Ronald Reagan and Tip O'Neill. I will be the Ronald Reagan if I can find a Tip O'Neill.",
"When I was 21, my mom died. When I was 22, my dad died. We owned a liquor store, restaurant, bar and we lived in the back. Every penny we needed from -- every penny we got from Social Security, because my sister was a minor, we needed. Today, I'm 60, I'm not married, I don't have any kids. I would give up some Social Security to save a system that Americans are going to depend on now and in the future.",
"Half of American seniors would be in poverty without a Social Security check. If you make your president, I'm going to put the country ahead of the party. I'm going to do what it takes to defend this nation. This nation has been great to me, and that's the only way I know to pay you back.",
"GRAHAM: Not the change we need at a time we need it.",
"GRAHAM: We need somebody ready to be commander-in-chief on day one, who understands there are no moderates in Iran, they've been killed a long time ago. That the Ayatollah is a radical jihadist who really means it when he chants, \"Death to America, death to Israel.\" And this deal is giving him a pathway to a bomb, a missile to deliver it, and money to pay for it all.",
"We need a president who can solve our problems, bring us together. We're becoming Greece if we don't work together. At the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, our best days are ahead of us only if we work together, and I intend to put this country on a path of success by working together and doing the hard things that should have been done a very long time ago."
