"GRAVEL: Iran's not a problem, never has been, never will be. What you're seeing right here is something very unique, very courageous. What the intelligence community has done is drop kick the president of the United States. These are people of courage that have watched what the president is doing, the on rush to war with Iran.",
"And so by releasing this information, which is diametrically opposed to the estimate that was given in '05, by showing that there is no information to warrant what the White House has been doing, they have now boxed in the president in his ability to go to war.",
"So my hat is off to these courageous people within the bureaucrats -- bureaucracy -- of the intelligence community.",
"Senator Barack Obama?",
"GRAVEL: There is no evidence. There is no evidence.",
"GRAVEL: And they've produced none. Our military has no evidence and they've not produced any.",
"But let's -- I want to touch something that they're all giving license to; that there's something wrong with Iran supporting Hamas and Hezbollah.",
"These are two elected organizations. And why can't they give support to those organizations?",
"Israel doesn't want it. So why do they buy, hook, line and sinker, that they can't give aid to Hamas and Hezbollah?",
"We give unlimited aid to Israel. These people are fighting for their rights.",
"GRAVEL: Is there something wrong with that?",
"GRAVEL: Yes, Michele, I want to take you to task, credit to your first rhetoric. And that was this great, tremendous...",
"MDOERATOR: I believe it was a question.",
"GRAVEL: Right. The tremendous increase in the defense.",
"There are only 10 percent of American defense.",
"GRAVEL: They haven't had a tremendous increase -- 10 percent of our defense.",
"And I want to take all of them to task. Clearly, none of them are running for China -- president of China, because this amount of demagoguery is shameful.",
"Here, the Chinese people have a problem. And when we continue this rhetoric of beggar thy neighbor, where our interests always come first, there should be the interest of human beings, the interest of human beings -- because, when you have a foreign policy that's",
"beggar thy neighbor, we all become beggars.",
"And so when they talk about the currency of China, what about what manipulations we do?",
"What about the American companies that dump things abroad?",
"GRAVEL: What about the tariffs? You want to have a...",
"GRAVEL: Thank you.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"Is any of you willing to state frankly that, if you do what you're talking about, getting tough on the currency, cracking down on what Senator Dodd called slave labor, taking other steps, that Americans are going to pay more for consumer goods at Wal-Mart (NYSE:WMT) and you believe it's worth it?",
"Is anyone willing to state frankly that that is the trade-off?",
"GRAVEL: This has become obvious in this discussion; that there has to be a reason why, over the last 15 years we haven't solved this problem as a nation.",
"Stop and think. Our unemployment level is about 4.5, and that's about as low as you can get it. So where is the problem? We have to have people fill these jobs. They come in and fill these jobs. We call them illegal.",
"Are they illegal? They're filling jobs that need to be done. If we were to chase them out, aren't we playing to the nativist, the crazies who are opposed to anybody coming in since they got here?",
"And the media plays into this. The Congress plays into this. Just open our doors. When the jobs are there to be filled, they'll come in. The jobs aren't there, they'll go home.",
"We can deal with all these other problems in trade, but we're making a mountain out of a mole hill. We're creating laws. We're trying to deal with this.",
"Deal with the obvious. We do not seem, as a nation, to be able to solve this problem the way we've been approaching it.",
"A couple of other candidates had their hands up, but we are approaching a break here so let me assure you that we will continue a bit more on this topic after the break.",
"You are listening to the NPR Democratic candidates' debate from Des Moines. We're going to take a break of about a minute. This is special coverage from NPR News. (BREAK)",
"And I do want to ask about a very similar topic, Senator. You said in a debate on Saturday night that you support people who are, as you put it, Yes, undocumented, but also working hard, trying to support their families. That's why they're here.",
"In the same answer, you said you want to crack down on employers.",
"Is there a contradiction there? If you crack down on employers, doesn't that mean you're telling employers to put these hard-working people, as you define them, out of work?",
"GRAVEL: It always has been. All waves have changed our society. And it's changed it for the good.",
"GRAVEL: I don't have the answer to be able to persuade the American people that they are the solution, not their leaders. I wish I had the answer to convince them of that.",
"Senator Obama?"
