"Hatch: Well, let me tell you something. When it comes to constitutional -- expressed constitutional provisions, and the Second Amendment is one of those expressed provisions, you've got to be very loathe to try and change that provision by mere statute. So I'm a strong supporter of Second Amendment rights.",
"I'm also a strong criticizer of this administration, because there are people being killed in our society today because they're not enforcing the law. Parents are afraid to have their kids go to school because they don't know whether those kids are going to be safe in schools. They're worried to death about it. And the reason they are is because 12,000 kids and adults took guns to school in the last two years in violation of law.",
"Guess how many prosecutions by this administration -- 13. And I can go down through every law that this administration hasn't enforced over the last number of years.",
"So I'm very concerned about it. People like you are concerned. Parents are concerned. Schools are concerned. And I've got to tell you, we've got too many guns in the streets in the hands of criminals.",
"I'll tell you what I'd do. I'd pass the Juvenile Justice Bill, which has a number of provisions in it that would help to alleviate these problems. But I'd also do this, I'd have the Hatch 10, 20, Life Amendment. And that is, if you commit a crime with the use of a gun and you have a gun on you, it's an automatic 10 years without parole. If you fire that gun, it's an automatic 20 years. If you hurt somebody with that gun, it's an automatic life.",
"Hatch: I think that'd set a rule that people'd have to abide by.",
"Hatch: Well, Jim, that's a real good question. I spent 23 years enacting health care legislation that has really benefited a lot of people, everything from creating the modern generic drug industry that has cut pharmaceutical costs in half so that our senior citizens don't have to go out and give up food in order to buy their pharmaceuticals, to home health care, to saving the nursing homes and other institutions that we have got to have, just in the latest Finance Committee matters that we have been doing. And of course, I have got to tell you that I have spent most of my career trying to solve health care problems.",
"Now, I found two years ago -- actually, I knew it before then -- that 10 million children in our society of the poorest of the poor families not on Medicaid, meaning the working poor, did not have adequate health care. They were the only people fully left out of our health care system.",
"So we fought day in-day out until we passed the Hatch-CHIP -- CHIP -- bill, the Child Health Insurance Program, that now provides full coverage for 7 to 10 million children. I didn't have -- I only had one governor who supported me during that whole time and very few people in Congress.",
"When it was finally passed, today, every governor claims that's his or her bill.",
"Now I'm not just talking about it; I've done it.",
"And I've been there and I will do it again.",
"Hatch: Well, that's a hard question. I'll tell you these questions have really been great. I'm not kidding.",
"But I would say the best policy that I've seen -- you know, I came up here and campaigned for Ronald Reagan in 1980. I've been tremendously impressed with the way people in this state take politics seriously.",
"And I've got to tell you, Reagan brought about a revolution, it was really an important one, because he reduced marginal tax rates from 70 percent down to 28 percent by 1986; that's what's been driving this economy every since. This president has taken credit for it, but literally that's what's doing it. Plus the fight for the balanced budget amendment which I lead for six or seven times since then. Plus the appointment of Alan Greenspan, who has done a terrific jog. I'll give this president some credit too, but plus the first time in 30 years you had a Republican Congress who supports a balanced budget on the American people.",
"And let me just say this, the president deserves some credit too because he appointed Robert Rubin, who, I think, did a tremendous job and he's been more pragmatic than other Democrats so we can, at least, manipulate him into doing what's right occasionally. At least that's what we're trying to do.",
"I think the worst thing that I've seen in public policy in many years -- it's hard to say because there have been a lot of worse things -- but one of the worst things I've seen is the way some of our federal judges have become activists on the bench; they have usurped the powers of the other two branches of government and have started to become super-legislators on the bench in black robes. And they have violated the real role of judging which is to interpret the laws, not make the laws and...",
"Hatch: Well, naturally, I favor throwing out the current system and getting rid of this awful IRS code. In fact, if I had my way we would get rid of the IRS and come up with the most fair, simple, decent, honorable system that we can have. And if I'm president of the United States, I will get the best actuarially sound accountants, attorneys and everybody else who are tax experts to sit down and show us how to do it: because a flat tax, the thing I worry about -- and I'm for it. I'd be happy to have any change that would simplify this code, that would give people a chance to be able to save more of their money, that would basically be stimulative to our economy.",
"But I'll tell you something, I worry about a flat tax, because I'm on the Senate Finance Committee. And I can tell you, we spend a lot of time just figuring out where all these little things go. And it's just a natural propensity in Congress to see us add more and more to that tax code until we satisfy just about every citizen in America. And it's killing our country.",
"So I would like to get rid of this system. I'd like to start over. And I think it's going to take guts to do it.",
"And if you elect me as president, I'm going to be a common-sense conservative who'll get that done. It's one of the things I'll do, I promise you.",
"Hatch: Well, thank you so much. I filed on July 1st. Some people thought it was too late. One of the media people said, aren't you a day late and dollar short? I said, no, I'm two years late and $36 million short.",
"Then I told him what I was doing. I think if people want to talk about campaign finance reform, then they ought to live their own rules. They ought to set an example. They ought to show us how to do it. They ought to live within the means of the common people, the everyday working person.",
"I was born not as a son of wealth. As a matter of fact, I worked as a janitor at one time to get through school, get through college. And I'm darn proud that I did. I learned a trade as a young man.",
"But I decided I wouldn't want to be president if I had to just rely on the fat-cat establishment out there giving me $1,000 donations. Now, I'm not going to turn any of those away, if you want to give them to me. [laughter]",
"So I decided what I'm going to do, I said if I get a million people to give me $36, I'll have as much money as George W. Bush and I'll win this dog-gone presidency for you and you'll have somebody who's beholden only to the people.",
"And oddly enough, I've been getting monies from Democrats, Republicans, independents saying: I want to be one of your million. And you can learn how to do it by looking at my web page; WarrenHatch.org. And you could learn how to become a Hatch Skinnycat. And if we do this, this is something that really would change the face of politics in this country; that somebody could get elected on $36 donations.",
"When was the last time a $36 donation elected a president of the United States? Well, I'm asking all of you to help.",
"Hatch: I want to be president because I have more experience than anybody running, including the two Democrats. I have a record of accomplishment that none of them can duplicate and I know how to get it done. And I know how to get people from diverse points of views to come together and get things done.",
"Last but not least, I think who picks the next 50 percent of the court plus five judges -- plus five Supreme Court nominees...",
"Hatch:... is going to be very important.",
"Hatch: That's the most important issue in this campaign. [applause]"
