"Hatch: Good evening. How are you, Brit?",
"Hatch: Well, you know, I think he has. And I think John is a passionate person. He does have a temper, there's no question about it and sometimes it's awful to be on the other side of it. [chuckles] But to make a long story short, there are a lot of people around there have had tempers, and a lot of others throughout our society who have served very well who have had tempers.",
"If the temper becomes nasty, that's another matter.",
"Now, let me just say this to you. I do disagree with John with regard to campaign finance reform. I think true campaign finance reform is what I'm doing. Today you can get everybody who's donated to me on my web page: www.orrinhatch.com or orrinhatch.org. I have to say, Governor, in contrast to yours, it's easy to find everything on mine. [chuckles] It's pretty tough to use yours! Yours is not user friendly. But I think that's what should be done. And I think real campaign finance reform is disclosure, disclosure, disclosure. And I think that's what I'm trying to do, plus low donations.",
"Hatch: I don't think I did. I think I pretty well implied what I felt then and what I feel right now.",
"No, I'm not willing to change my mind. I don't agree with John on a lot of things. I certainly don't agree with him on campaign finance reform. I think that would devastate the Republican Party while leaving the Democratic Party completely open for independent expenditure campaigns by the unions, who CRS, Congressional Research Service, says spend somewhere in the neighborhood of a half billion dollars every two years in getting out the vote, something they would continue to be able to do while the Republican Party would not be able to have any special interest group that would help them. And if it is wrong for public interest groups — or right for them, why isn't it right for the parties?",
"Hatch: Well, the best means is, of course, to allow an appeal so that the decisions aren't made by accountants and lawyers, but by doctors. The Senate bill allows that to be done. However, I do agree that the House bill has gone a little bit farther. If those appeals don't work, it seems to me there ought to be some form of litigation to be able to keep things straight.",
"Now, I have to say that what we're trying to avoid, and the one thing we're looking for more than anything else, is to quit making lawyers rich at the expense of everybody else, and running up the cost of the system.",
"So there has to be ultimately, I think, and there will be ultimately in the final bill, there will be some sort of ability to bring litigation if justice isn't really going to occur.",
"You know, the Senate bill is stronger. The House bill does provide for that. And I think there will be a compromise where ultimately there will be a provision for litigation, but something that hopefully will not just make the attorneys rich and run the cost of hospitalization and other medical services up.",
"Hatch: Is that 3 or 13 cents per minute, per hour, per day, per what? The fact of the matter is, you're looking at somebody who was a medical liability defense lawyer at one time. And I've estimated that it costs us an extra $300 billion a year in health care costs, if not more, because of unjustified litigation.",
"So we want to make sure that patients have rights, that they are protected. And if litigation is the only way they can be, we want to provide that they are. But if we can avoid litigation, it saves every taxpayer in America, it saves Mom and Dad and all the kids and everybody else who's going to have to pay taxes, it saves them that money and really basically preserves our economy.",
"So it's a matter of bringing things together, something I've done my whole Senate career. As a matter of fact, I'm not just talking about it. I've done it. More needs to be done. That's why I'm running for president.",
"Hatch: Well, look, I was the first to hold hearings on Microsoft because we had literally hundreds, if not thousands, of complaints from all over the software and computer industry that Microsoft was leveraging its 90 percent control of the underlying operating system that everybody had to tie into in order to come onto the Internet and in order to use — and that they were doing that by crushing others, picking on others, buying up others, using their economic power. Now, that's what the antitrust laws are for.",
"The antitrust laws are very conservative laws. They're laws that try to make sure we even up and make people equal.",
"Keep in mind the judge that tried that case, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, is one of our better District Court judges. He wrote an extensive opinion concerning the finding of facts, and those facts were devastating to Microsoft. Anybody who reads that opinion and then says that Microsoft shouldn't have to face some sort of a sanction or some sort of remedy, really hasn't looked at the facts. To make a long story short, that suit is justified.",
"Hatch: You've got that exactly right. The whole purpose of the antitrust laws is to protect consumers. But you don't protect consumers if you crunch others who might be competitors from being competitive and if you use predatory conduct to do that.",
"Now, the judge has given his statement of facts. The next step is to find out if Microsoft has a monopoly. The step after that is what remedy do you have if Microsoft is found to be in a monopoly? I suspect that it's very difficult for Microsoft to escape being called a monopoly or have a monopoly control with regard to the underlying operating system. When it comes to the final decision, that could range from anything from a slap on the hands to actual breakup.",
"Hatch: We have currently a moratorium on taxation on the Internet, and I happen to agree with that. I really don't want the Internet to be taxed.",
"And to be honest with you, I don't want it to be regulated beyond reasonable norms. For instance, we passed the Hatch cyber-squatting bill at the end of this session.",
"That bill basically is kind of a regulation that is necessary because — with regard to intellectual property and trademarks. We've made it an actionable for somebody to steal your name and to put a pornographic site on it under your name, which is happening today.",
"But other than intellectual property matters and use of the V-chip to protect our children, I'd like to keep the Internet as free from regulation as we possibly can. It's probably one of the greatest sources of information and communication that we have in — we've ever had in this world, and I want to keep it that way. On the other other hand, there are some things that are bad, and government can take pornographic sites off. Government can — under current law, there are some things that really need to be done.",
"Hatch: Well, that's what my governor says, and he feels very strongly that we're going to lose Main Street, USA, if we don't allow the same type of tax on e-commece transactions that we do on state transactions. I'm not sure he's right about that. E-commerce right now is significant. But I really question whether my wife is going to go and buy everything off the Internet instead of going to the stores, or whether I'm going to otherwise, because Elaine told me this week, she said — I said, \"Why don't you just order off the Internet?\" She said, \"I want to go to the stores. I like to walk around among the products. I like to see them. I like to touch them.\" And I don't think that's going to necessarily go down the drain. But we'll have to look at it. We'll have to stay with the flow. But I'd like to not have regulation that that should be the rule. If it has to be, then we'll face that when it comes.",
"Hatch: Well, let me just say this. I'm against taxes. I was one of the handful who convinced Ronald Reagan that we should cut marginal tax rates from 70 percent down to 28 percent by 1986. I agree with Governor Bush on the one hand that he's trying to cut taxes $1.14 trillion over the next 10 years. That's larger than our congressional tax cut of $792 billion. Good going.",
" On the other hand, he wants to do it within this same lousy system that we have. Can't blame him for that, because it's hard to change it. But the fact of the matter is we need to throw out this IRS code and we need to start all over. Whether it should be a flat tax or whatever, we've got to get a simplified code and we've got to go from there.",
"Now let me tell you, I am for anybody who will cut taxes. You know, when — here's what we did. We put 25 percent away for cutting taxes, and 75 percent away for saving Social Security, Medicare, and paying down the national debt. I thought that was the right thing to do, and I thought that it would have worked.",
"Hatch: On this issue or on the HMO issue?",
"Hatch: On this issue?",
"Hatch: Well, I'll tell you, I agree with that. I think we ought to throw out the whole doggone code. It's a terrible code. It's convoluted. I'm on the Finance Committee, I deal with it every year. As a matter of fact, at the end of the year we dealt with all kinds of health care issues that we had to keep straightening out because the balanced budget and the tax problems weren't solved and created more problems there — had 900 skilled nursing facilities to handle complex medical patients not taking care of patients.",
"So, yes, I think we ought to throw out that code, start over again. If I had my way, it would be a sales tax where people could determine exactly what they pay through the consumption that they make. Now that's — that's a pretty big step, but it's something we ought to work on, and I'd sure try to get that done.",
"Hatch: No, I'm not going to call for her resignation. I have to say, I've been very critical because I think she's had a palace guard around her that have caused her to not live up to her responsibilities with regard to the investigations that have been taking place. Now in the Judiciary Committee right now, we set up a special subcommittee headed by Arlen Specter to get into some of these problems. And thus far, under threat of subpoena, they seem to be cooperating for the first time in a long, long time, and cooperating in a way that I think might work out.",
"Look, it's not my job to tell the president of the United States who he should have as attorney general. I would prefer somebody with a little more skill, with a little more dedication, who would not listen to the palace guard from the White House, the political types, who would do what's in the best interest of this nation regardless of what the administration has to say. That's what the attorney general of the United States should do. They should be giving the president advice to help the president to do what is right, and they should be prosecuting people who commit violations of the law, and they haven't been doing it, and we all know it.",
"Hatch: Well, I'm tired of the two political parties' establishment picking our candidates year after year or election after election. I'm running a campaign for the people, for ordinary people, asking them to send — if I can get a million people to send in $36 or more, I'll win this election for you and I'll be beholden only to you.",
"But, you know, this is the fourth debate that I've been in. And, Governor, we're happy to have you with us. And all I can say is that, you know, these debates, as good as this one has been, have been kind of stilted, they've been kind of boring, they're structured.",
"It seems to me that the way — what we ought to really do is we ought to leave the entourage behind. We ought to get out there and understand that the American people, they want us as presidents for the good or the bad. They want us to be a good president during the good times, they want us to be able to help them during bad times. They want to get to know us, they want to know what we're all about.",
"I just have a suggestion to all of us. Why don't we just take two weeks in the month of January and spend a week here in New Hampshire, a week in Iowa; get on a bus, all of us, leave the entourage behind, and just go throughout this state and meet with the people and let them set the standards, let them set the terms. Do it in town meetings, and let them ask any questions they want and let's just respond to them. Let's kind of be like Lincoln and Douglas and really have a debate here rather than, you know, the stilted thing that we're doing.",
"And if we do that, I guarantee you, we'll have three things happen to us: Number one, we'll get to know these people better, and better than we ever possibly could during this presidential election.",
"Number two, they'll get to know us better, which I think is a good thing, and it would help all of us to do a better job.",
"And number three, this would be real honest campaign reform. Can you imagine what we'd be able to do by the time we get to California. How about it, Gary? How about it, George? How about it, Steve? How about it, Alan? How about it, John? [laughter] Wouldn't that be a good idea? It'd be the way to really get it out of this stilted way of doing things.",
"Keyes: I'll join you.",
"Hatch: Alan will join. [laughter]",
"Hatch: Good, let's do it. Let's do it. Why don't we do that? Why don't we just — you know, I think you both have done a terrific job here this evening, but you're limited by what can be done in this kind of a format. Why don't we get out there with the people? Why don't we do this? And then I think we'd treat each other better too."
