"HUCKABEE: You know, it's going to be really more do the voters trust him, and do they trust me. I know this: I balanced a budget every year I was governor. I left a surplus of $850 million coming up from a deficit of $200 million. I know I signed the first- ever broad-based tax cuts. And I know that I made tax cuts that really impacted families by eliminating the marriage penalty, doubling the child care tax credit, raising the income level at which people paid their income tax.",
"But let me speak to the really heart of what I think a lot of Americans are concerned about with the economy. And frankly, in talking about the stimulus package, one of the concerns that I have is that we'll probably end up borrowing this $150 billion from the Chinese. And when we get those rebate checks, most people are going to go out and buy stuff that's been imported from China. I have to wonder whose economy is going to be stimulated the most by the package.",
"And I'm grateful that something is being done. I think we all could at least acknowledge that it's good to see Congress working with the president to do something.",
"But if we're going to spend $150 billion, I'd like to suggest that maybe we add two lanes of highway from Bangor all the way to Miami on I-95. A third of the United States population lives within 100 miles of that.",
"This nation's infrastructure is falling apart. And if we built those lanes of highways -- with American labor, American steel, American concrete -- I believe it would do more to stimulate the economy.",
"And the reason I say that is because when we were going through a recession in my state, we were in the middle of a billion-dollar highway construction program that brought about 40,000 jobs and brought a billion dollars of capital into the economy. That's a long- term stimulus package that I think would have more impact on the American long-term future. And it would keep social capital from being wasted, fuel wasted. A lot of people in Florida sit around in traffic every day, never getting to their kids' dance recitals or soccer games because they're stuck in traffic, and we've done nothing about it.",
"MR. RUSSERT: Governor Romney, you've criticized Senator tor McCain for opposing the first two Bush tax cuts. You've criticized Mayor Giuliani for going to court to try to retain a commuter tax on people coming to the city of New York. Do you trust Senator McCain and Mayor Giuliani on the issue of being tax cutters?",
"HUCKABEE: Well, Tim, let me remind you, I wasn't in Washington during all this time, so that's one of the reasons they ought to give me a chance since I wasn't there messing this up.",
"HUCKABEE: I don't think you can blame all of this on President Bush. The president also has done, I think, a fine job of making sure that the focus of his White House was also keeping us safe.",
"But let's look at those economic issues. A few months ago, when we were all in Dearborn, Michigan, your network was the sponsor with CNBC and MSNBC, and every one of us were asked, \"How's the economy doing?\" every one of my colleagues said, \"It's doing great,\" and they gave all the numbers.",
"When they came to me, I know people acted like I was the only guy at the U.N. without a headset that night. But the truth is, I was the only guy on that stage who said it may be doing great if you're at the top. But if you talk to the people at the bottom of the economy, the people who are handling the bags, the people who are serving the food, you get a very different picture, because their health care costs are up dramatically.",
"The cost to educate their children are up. And the cost of their fuel has way outstripped any wage increase they've had.",
"Now, often we hear people talk about trickle-down economics, that if you have a wonderful surge in the economy that it eventually works it way down to all sectors. But there's another issue, too: there is a trickle-up impact when the economy begins to go sour. And if you pay attention to the people who are the single moms and the working people who barely get from paycheck to paycheck, you'd find out months in advance that this economy was headed for a downward turn. And that's what I think people need in the president, is somebody who understands the totality of the American family and not just the folks at the top.",
"HUCKABEE: I supported the president when he led us into this, as did the Democrats. And I think we owe him not a lot of scorn; we owe him our thanks that he had the courage to recognize there was a potential of weapons of mass destruction, and whether than wait until we had another attack, he went and made sure that it wasn't going to happen from Saddam Hussein.",
"Now, everybody can look back and say, oh, well, we didn't find the weapons. It doesn't mean they weren't there. Just because you didn't find every Easter egg didn't mean that it wasn't planted.",
"My point is that when the president acted, this country was united in believing it was a necessary thing to do. It's easy to second-guess a president. Whoever of us is elected, we'll be second- guessed, too. But I hope we have the courage and the resolve, once we commit to something, to make sure that we don't back away just because the polls say we should.",
"HUCKABEE: Well, the reason that it's getting resonance is because people would love to see the IRS abolished. They know, as Dr. Phil might say: We've had it since 1913; how's that working out for us? It's not working out so well. The fact is we're penalized for productivity in this country. The harder you work, the more you earn, the more the IRS and the government wants from you.",
"What the Fair Tax does is says, we want you to earn; we want you to save and we want you to buy things and sell things and make a profit. Republicans ought to embrace the Fair Tax, as should Democrats, because it stops this nonsense and goes to the common sense of the idea that we should encourage people to work and get something for it.",
"(Cross talk.)",
"Now, on the bottom end of the spectrum, here's the thing. A lot of people have never read the entire Fair Tax because when I first heard about the Fair Tax, the consumption tax, quite frankly it sounds like it would be oppressive and regressive to the poor. The poor come out best of all because of the provision in the Fair Tax called the prebate in which every American, each month, is given the amount of the Fair Tax back up to the level of poverty. Everybody gets it, not just those under the level of poverty.",
"It actually untaxes the poor, untaxes the elderly. It makes sure that we don't end up paying taxes on groceries and medicine and the basic necessities of life. And for each third of the economy, there is a benefit, about a 14 percent benefit for those at the bottom; those in the middle, about a 7 percent; even those at the very top end of the economy end up with about a 5 percent benefit.",
"Everybody gets in the economy -- no more underground economy. Drug dealers, prostitutes, pimps, gamblers, non-Republicans -- (laughter) -- all of those people out there will be paying taxes. Nobody's working under the table.",
"And so you have now a broad base in which you're receiving the money. And it's a completely different, transparent tax system, as opposed to the one now, where about 22 percent of our products we buy, the tax is hidden into it.",
"Corporations don't pay tax; they build that cost in, pass it on to the consumer.",
"HUCKABEE: And what's killing the American economy is that embedded tax and the invisibility of the tax. That's why I support the Fair Tax.",
"HUCKABEE: I want to -- I want to put the IRS out of business.",
"HUCKABEE: Well, first of all, Tim, it's 23 percent if we were to break even.",
"And they're not paying 15 percent; that's in their visible tax in the terms of the takeout from their checks. When you include the built-in tax, the embedded tax in the products we buy that corporations build in, the average American is paying 33 percent in his or her taxes. The average American is working through the month of May just to pay off the government. It would be a dramatic difference if the taxpayers got to choose the taxes, which they would do under the Fair Tax.",
"I think most of us realize that there's got to be a better system. The one we have now is irreparably broken. It's chased jobs. Now we have $12 trillion of working capital moved offshore because our tax system has chased it away.",
"HUCKABEE: Mitt, I'd like to ask you a question that came up during your interview with Tim Russert on \"Meet the Press,\" and it has to with the Second Amendment. You have indicated that you support Second Amendment, but on that interview, you indicated that you also supported a ban on so-called -- and I use the term \"so-called\" -- assault weapons and supported Brady.",
"For many of us who are strong adherents of the Second Amendment, that's not quite consistent, to say you're for Brady and so-called assault gun ban, but supported the Second Amendment, because we see that -- that's really a denial of the Second Amendment. I'd appreciate some clarification on do you support Brady, do you support the assault weapon ban, and your position on exactly what restrictions government should put on Second Amendment rights.",
"HUCKABEE: I'm going to address that but I want to first comment on Mitt's decision on the -- putting an extraordinary amount of money in the campaign.",
"First of all, let me say, you've got five exceptional sons I know you're very proud of. And you said you wanted them to inherit a great country, and I have a solution, Mitt, that I think will work. If the country will elect me president, they'll inherit a great country. And your boys will still get your money, too, and I think that would be a great answer. So I want to offer that as a solution tonight for inheritance.",
"On the Social Security question, one of the reasons that we're in trouble is because we have a smaller group of people paying into the Social Security system, fewer wage earners, more Americans getting their wealth from dividends and from investments.",
"So you have a shrinking supply -- you have 10,000 baby boomers a day getting into the system.",
"One of the reasons I'm a strong supporter of the Fair Tax is that you suddenly have a different funding stream for Social Security. It comes out of the general fund. So you now have a more reliable, a more stable and a much broader funding system that will supply Social Security.",
"HUCKABEE: Well, you know, everybody keeps talking about how unlikely it is.",
"HUCKABEE: It was unlikely that we'd go to the moon.",
"HUCKABEE: It was unlikely that we would have the Manhattan Project.",
"HUCKABEE: Being president -- now, Tim, I just want to say everybody talks about how unlikely these things are. That's what's wrong in America. We're -- we're always talking about what we can't do. We need to be talking about what we can do, whether it's energy independence, whether it's passing a tax system that'll work. And I do believe when you have an economy that brings that $12 trillion that's parked offshore -- bring it back to this country, then you have a true economic stimulus, more people going back to work in America, people making wages, and that's where -- that's where we start seeing the capacity to pay for Social Security.",
"HUCKABEE: I did hear what Chuck said. I was standing with him and I didn't disagree with him at the time, because I was standing next to him. It's as simple as that. This is a guy who can put this foot on that side of my face, and there's nothing I can do about it. (Laughter.)",
"Now, I have said publicly, in fact, I think it was the debate we had, gosh, back in New Hampshire. And I publicly said and I have said it many times, I don't think that Senator McCain lacks the rigor and the capacity to be president. And I said, if you look at his mother and see her strength at 95, of all the things we can pick on Senator McCain for, that ain't one of them. (Laughter.)",
"HUCKABEE: There may be some other things I could pick on Senator McCain about, but -- but not that. And frankly, I think he's demonstrated in the campaign that he's got the capacity to run. He and I would have different approaches to be president, but I promise you that is not an issue for me. It might be for Chuck, but I'm far enough away from him that I feel comfortable in saying that now. (Laughter.)",
"HUCKABEE: I would say that would be his problem, not mine. My faith does not give me a queasy feeling; it gives me a solid core from which I'm able to live every day. I don't wake up every day and have to look at a poll to decide what I believe. My faith grounds me. It gives me some sense of direction and purpose. I don't try to impose it on other people, and I certainly would never use the auspices of government to try to push my faith. But for me to run from it? Impossible. It's who I am. And so if it gives some people a queasy feeling, then they'll have to deal with it.",
"The fact is, this country has always been a country where people were able to respect people who had faith. And frankly, we ought to be able to respect people who don't have any. I mean, I don't feel like a person has to share my faith to share my love of this country. But if a person hates me or dislikes me because of my faith, I'm not sure if they understand what it means to truly be an American, where we can live with each other no matter how different our faith is.",
"But at least we have that understanding that historically faith has been an important part of who this country is. Most Americans believe in God. As I've often said, if you want a president that doesn't, you'll have to pick somebody else.",
