"Huckabee: Thank you very much.",
"Ashley, first of all, let me just express that you're a little misinformed. We never passed a bill that gave special privileges to the children of illegals to go to college.",
"Now, let me tell you what I did do. I supported the bill that would've allowed those children who had been in our schools their entire school life the opportunity to have the same scholarship that their peers had, who had also gone to high school with them and sat in the same classrooms.",
"They couldn't just move in in their senior year and go to college. It wasn't about out of state tuition. It was an academic, meritorious scholarship called the Academic Challenge Scholarship.",
"Now, let me tell you a couple of provisions of it. And, by the way, it didn't pass. It passed the House but got in the Senate and got caught up in the same kind of controversy that this country is caught up in.",
"And here's what happened. This bill would've said that if you came here, not because you made the choice but because your parents did, that we're not going to punish a child because the parent committed a crime.",
"That's not what we typically do in this country.",
"It said that if you'd sat in our schools from the time you're five or six-years old and you had become an A-plus student, you'd completed the core curriculum, you were an exceptional student, and you also had to be drug and alcohol-free -- and the other provision, you had to be applying for citizenship.",
"It accomplished two things that we knew we wanted to do, and that is, number one, bring people from illegal status to legal status.",
"And the second thing, we wanted people to be taxpayers, not tax- takers. And that's what that provision did.",
"And finally, would we give that provision to the children of veterans, personally? What we've done with not just the children of veterans, but most importantly, veterans is disgraceful in this country.",
"And that's why I proposed a veterans bill of rights that, if anything, would give our veterans the most exceptional privileges of all, because they are the ones who have earned all of our freedom -- every single one of them.",
"Huckabee: Well, but they didn't get something better. They had to earn it.",
"And, you know something, I worked my way through college. I started work when I was 14 and I had to pay my own way through.",
"I know how hard it was to get that degree. I am standing here tonight on this stage because I got an education. If I hadn't had the education, I wouldn't be standing on this stage. I might be picking lettuce. I might be a person who needed government support, rather than who was giving so much money in taxes I want to get rid of the tax code that we've got and make it really different.",
"Huckabee: Mitt, let me finish. Let me finish, Mitt.",
"In all due respect, we are a better country than to punish children for what their parents did. We're a better country than that.",
"(Applause)",
"Huckabee: No, there is ...",
"Huckabee: Well, but let's just be factual.",
"Huckabee: Because they're earning it. That was the difference. They had to earn it by their...",
"Huckabee: Anderson, the first thing that I would get rid of would be the Internal Revenue Service.",
"(Applause)",
"We'd have a complete -- getting rid of a $10-billion-a-year industry.",
"I'm not being facetious. If we enacted the fair tax, one of the most researched ways to revive our economic future ...",
"(Applause)",
"... we will get rid of the IRS. Secondly, I agree we need to revamp homeland security. It's a mess, and we have a real problem with the way that it's currently structured. And the third...",
"Huckabee: What's that?",
"Huckabee: Oh, OK. Get rid of the IRS, and that would account for most of the problems. Most people in this country are more afraid of an audit than they are of a mugging, and there's a reason why.",
"Huckabee: I would, Anderson. In fact, I signed a pledge to that effect and would keep that pledge.",
"Huckabee: Others have suggested a surcharge on the income tax. That's acceptable. I'm fine with that. Others have suggested, perhaps, a sales tax. That's fine.",
"(End videotape)",
"Huckabee: Well, I was governor nearly 11 years, and in that time I cut 90 taxes. Over that period of time, the income tax remained exactly what it was. The sales tax is one penny higher.",
"But I did do a number of tax cuts that helped a lot of people all over the place, like eliminating the marriage penalty, doubling the child care tax credit, getting rid of capital gains on the sale of a home, cutting capital gains on other things.",
"I have a great record on fiscal conservativism. But one thing I've learned, you know, when you get attacked, it's not always bad. It's like my old pastor used to tell me, when they're kicking you in the rear, it's just proving you're still out front.",
"(Applause)",
"Huckabee: You know, one of the toughest challenges that I ever faced as a governor was carrying out the death penalty. I did it more than any other governor ever had to do it in my state. As I look on this stage, I'm pretty sure that I'm the only person on this stage that's ever had to actually do it.",
"Let me tell you, it was the toughest decision I ever made as a human-being. I read every page of every document of every case that ever came before me, because it was the one decision that came to my desk that, once I made it, was irrevocable.",
"Every other decision, somebody else could go back and overturn, could fix if it was a mistake. That was one that was irrevocable.",
"I believe there is a place for a death penalty. Some crimes are so heinous, so horrible that the only response that we, as a civilized nation, have for a most uncivil action is not only to try to deter that person from ever committing that crime again, but also as a warning to others that some crimes truly are beyond any other capacity for us to fix.",
"(Applause)",
"Now, having said that, there are those who say, \"How can you be pro-life and believe in the death penalty?\"",
"Because there's a real difference between the process of adjudication, where a person is deemed guilty after a thorough judicial process and is put to death by all of us, as citizens, under a law, as opposed to an individual making a decision to terminate a life that has never been deemed guilty because the life never was given a chance to even exist.",
"Huckabee: That's the fundamental difference.",
"(Applause)",
"Huckabee: Jesus was too smart to ever run for public office, Anderson. That's what Jesus would do.",
"(Applause)",
"Huckabee: Do I need to help you out, Mayor, on this one?",
"(Laughter)",
"(Applause)",
"Huckabee: I'm trying to help you out.",
"Huckabee: Sure. I believe the Bible is exactly what it is. It's the word of revelation to us from God himself.",
"(Applause)",
"And the fact is that when people ask do we believe all of it, you either believe it or you don't believe it. But in the greater sense, I think what the question tried to make us feel like was that, well, if you believe the part that says \"Go and pluck out your eye,\" well, none of us believe that we ought to go pluck out our eye. That obviously is allegorical.",
"But the Bible has some messages that nobody really can confuse and really not left up to interpretation. \"Love your neighbor as yourself.\"",
"And as much as you've done it to the least of these brethren, you've done it unto me. Until we get those simple, real easy things right, I'm not sure we ought to spend a whole lot of time fighting over the other parts that are a little bit complicated.",
"And as the only person here on the stage with a theology degree, there are parts of it I don't fully comprehend and understand, because the Bible is a revelation of an infinite god, and no finite person is ever going to fully understand it. If they do, their god is too small.",
"Huckabee: Faith doesn't just influence me. It really defines me. I don't have to wake up every day wondering what do I need to believe?",
"Let us never sacrifice our principles for anybody's politics. Not now, not ever.",
"I believe life begins at conception.",
"We believe in some things. We stand by those things. We live or die by those things.",
"I'm Mike Huckabee, and I approve this message.",
"(End video clip)",
"Huckabee: The Uniform Code of Military Justice is probably the best rule, and it has to do with conduct. People have a right to have whatever feelings, whatever attitudes they wish, but when their conduct could put at risk the morale, or put at risk even the cohesion that Duncan Hunter spoke of, I think that's what is at issue. And that's why our policy is what it is.",
"Huckabee: You know, in my position in this entire election, I need the support of anybody and everybody I can get.",
"(Applause)",
"(Crosstalk)",
"Huckabee: Sure, they should. I disagree with them, strongly disagree with them on the idea of same-sex marriage, but in a democracy we can have disagreements over some policies and still agree on the greater things that make us Republicans.",
"So would I accept their support? Of course. Would I change my position on same-sex marriage? No, I wouldn't. But if they're willing to support me, I'll be their president. I'll be anybody's president, but I'll be true to my convictions, and I think that's what Americans look for -- not someone they're going to agree with on everything, but somebody who at least has some convictions, sticks with them, can explain them, and can at least have respect for people who have different ones.",
"(Applause)",
"Huckabee: Whether we ought to go to Mars is not a decision that I would want to make, but I would certainly want to make sure that we expand the space program, because every one of us who are sitting here tonight have our lives dramatically improved because there was a space program -- whether it's these screens that we see or the incredible electronics that we use, including the GPS systems that got many of you to this arena tonight.",
"(Laughter)",
"Some of you were late because you didn't have one, by the way. Or whether it's the medical technologies that saved many of our lives or the lives or our families, it's the direct result of the space program, and we need to put more money into science and technology and exploration.",
"Now, whether we need to send somebody to Mars, I don't know. But I'll tell you what: If we do, I've got a few suggestions, and maybe Hillary could be on the first rocket to Mars.",
"(Laughter)",
"Huckabee: Well, according to your network's exit polls, some 48 percent of the African-Americans in my state did, in fact, vote for me, which is unusually high for African-Americans voting for a Republican. Here's the reason why: because I asked for their vote, and I didn't wait until October of the election year to do it.",
"And, while I was governor, I tried to make sure that we included people not only in appointments and employment, but also in the programs that would truly make a difference, like putting disproportionate amounts of help for health problems specifically targeted to African-Americans like hypertension and AIDS and diabetes. So there's a reason. And I just want to express that our party had better reach out not just to African-Americans, but to Hispanics and to all people of this country.",
"I don't want to be a part of a Republican party that is a tiny, minute and ever decreasing party, but one that touches every American from top to bottom, regardless of race."
