"HUCKABEE: I wish I saw the country in the same place that the president presented it to be the other night in the State of the Union. He talked about how great the economy was doing. And I guess for the people he hangs out with, it's probably doing great.",
"But the president should've stood in the line at the layaway counter at Walmart just before Christmas. He would have heard a very different story about the economy of America.",
"I wish I could introduce him the lady who cleans the building where our campaign headquarters is located in Little Rock. Her name is Kathleen. She works all day at a local hospital cleaning, and then she goes to the building where a bank, and our headquarters, and other offices are she spends another seven hours. She works 15 hours a day.",
"I guarantee you she's not working 15 hours a day because she loves scrubbing toilets, and sweeping floors. She's working that many hours because that's what it takes for her to make it work.",
"And, she's not alone. There are people all over this country who are working like that. Many of them working two jobs — and they used to have one job, and that would take care of them. But, because of wage stagnation, which we've had for 40 years, because the fact that they're punished for working harder if they work that many hours. The government gets more of their second shift than they do.",
"And, as a result there are a lot of people who are hurting today. I wish the President knew more of them. He might make a change in the economy and the way he's managing it. [applause]",
"HUCKABEE: Let me put that in context. When I went to Afghanistan, I saw a land that looked like the land of the Flintstones. It was desolate. It was barren. It was primitive.",
"And it's been that way for thousands of years. They want to take the world back to be just like that.",
"We don't.",
"We need to make a clear goal as to why we want to be anywhere in the Middle East, and I'll tell you why we want to be and need to be, is to destroy radical Islam and everything that threatens civilization. It's not just a threat...[applause]...to Israel or to America, it's a threat to every civilized person on this Earth. And we need to be equipping not only the Kurds in Iraq, we need to be making sure that those who are willing to fight radical Muslims will do it, but we need to never ever spend a drop of American blood unless there is a clearly defined goal and we can't make sure we win unless we have a military that's the strongest in the history of mankind.",
"We've got to rebuild our navy. It's the smallest navy we've had since 1915, when my grandfather got on a destroyer in World War I when he was in the U.S. Navy. We've got young men in Air Force B-52s, one in particular, he's flying a B-52 that his father flew in the '80s and his grandfather flew in the '50s. Those planes are older than me.",
"We've got to have a military that the world is afraid of, use it sparingly, but when we do, the whole world will know that America is on their tail and they will be on their tail on the ground, never ever to rise up again. [applause]",
"HUCKABEE: Only if there is a concerted effort to destroy the advance of radical Islamists who are against us. As far as what are we going to make it look like. Frankly, I don't know what we can make it look like. You can't create for other people a desire for freedom and democracy.",
"And frankly, that is not the role of the United States. The role of the United States military is not to build schools, it is not to build bridges, it is not to go around and pass out food packets.",
"It is to kill and destroy our enemy and make America safe and that is the purpose we should be there if we're going to be there.",
"HUCKABEE: [laughing] Yes, I did.",
"HUCKABEE: Well, why don't we start by making sure the Justice Department never does an idiotic program like Fast and Furious where the U.S. Government put guns...[cheering]...in the hands of Mexican drug lords...[applause]...and end up killing one of our border agents. You know, they want to talk about law abiding citizens, I just find it amazing the President keeps saying the gun show loophole. There is no gun show loophole. I promise you I've been to more gun shows than President Obama.",
"HUCKABEE: And, I've bought more weapons at them, and you fill out forms. The President also says things that it's easier to get a gun now than it is to grow trees. Again, I purchase guns, and I can assure you that it is much more difficult to purchase a firearm than it is to get the ingredients of a salad at the supermarket.",
"What the President keeps pushing are ideas that have never worked. Ideas that would not have stopped San Bernadino, Sandy Hook, Aurora, and at some point you wonder if you keep retrying things that don't work, maybe we should just see if we could resell all those used lottery tickets that didn't work real well because that's the logic of just keep doing the same thing, but something that has failed. Of course, we want to stop gun violence, but the one common thing that has happened in most mass shootings is that they happened in gun- free zones where people who would have been law abiding citizens, who could have stood up and at least tried to stop it and we're not allowed to under the law. [applause]",
"HUCKABEE: Well, we shouldn't be and that's one of the reasons that I think there a lot of voices in our country who are saying it's time to relook at the visa program. The European Union is a failure, it's not allowed for even the economic goals that they were trying to achieve.",
"But, what we're not seeing is that it's making Europe less safe, and it's proven not to be exactly what they all thought it was going to be.",
"Our first and foremost responsibility in this country, and the first responsibility of the President of the United States is protect America, and protect Americans. We have a President who seems to be more interested in protecting the reputation and image of Islam than he is protecting us. And, I want to be very clear...[applause]...that this President. [cheering]",
"Makes comments like he did the other night, that we have to be so careful because we don't want to offend Muslims. He needs to read his own FBI crime stats from last year which would show him that of the hate crimes in the country, over 5,500, about 1,100 were religious hate crimes. And, of those, 58% were directed toward Jews. Only 16% directed toward Muslims.",
"Maybe what the President should have talked about the other night is how we ought to be more careful in the anti-semitic comments that are going toward American Jews than toward Muslims because by three times as many...[applause]...they're being targeted for religious hate crime.",
"HUCKABEE: It does not shut down international commerce, but it may slow it down. And, you don't want to slowdown commerce that is making us safer. It's worth it. This lady who came and joined with the San Bernardino killer had passed three background checks, and that's why a lot of Americans didn't buy it when the President said we'll bring in Syrian refugees, but don't worry we'll check them out.",
"We have a lot of confidence in a president who told us that we could keep our doctor, we could keep our health insurance, and cost us less, and now the latest is if you like your gun you can keep it too, and frankly, we don't buy it. We don't believe it. He's lost his credibility, and his inept... [applause]...inability to work with Congress and pass legislation has led him to do what I never even imagined doing as a governor, and that's just going and doing it my own way.",
"That's why we elect a president, is to lead, is to be able to shepherd things through. And if I can do it with a 90 percent Democrat legislature in Arkansas, there is no excuse for any president not being able to lead in Washington if he knows what the heck he is doing when he gets there. [applause]",
"HUCKABEE: Well, first of all, let's just remember that Social Security is not the government's money, it belongs to the people who had it taken out of their checks involuntarily their entire working lives. [applause]",
"For the government to say, well it is fault of working people that we have a Social Security problem, no. It is the fault of a government that used those people's money for something other than protecting those people's accounts. So let's not blame them and punish them. [applause]",
"But here is a fact, and I sometimes hear Republicans say well, we're going to have to cut this and extend the age. You know what I think a lot of times when I hear people say, well, let's make people work to their 70. That sounds great for white-collar people who sat at a desk most of their lives. You ever talk to somebody that stood on concrete floor for the first 40 years of their working life? Do you think they can stand another five years or 10 years, many of them will retired virtually crippled because they worked hard. And we're going to punish them some more? I don't think so. Here's the fact. [applause]",
"Four percent economic growth, we fully fund Social Security and Medicare. Our problem is not that Social Security is just too generous to seniors. It isn't. Our problem is that our politicians have not created the kind of policies that would bring economic growth.",
"And I still support strongly that we get rid of the 77,000 pages of the monstrous tax code...[applause]...pass the fair tax, supercharge this economy with the rocket fuel that happens with the consumption tax and we don't have to cut Social Security to any senior who has worked their lifetime for it. [applause]",
"HUCKABEE: Let me go back to the reason so many people are having a hard time getting ahead. The tax system punishes them.",
"Think about this. If you work really hard and you start moving up the economic ladder, you get bumped into a different tax bracket. So the government thinks it deserves more of your hard work than you do.",
"And it's one of the reasons that no matter how many different reforms you have to a tax on people's productivity, you're still taxing their work, their savings. You're taxing their capital gains, inheritance, dividends, you're taxing everything that produces something.",
"And it's way I really believe it's time to do something bold, not something minute. This is no time for a tap of the hammer, a twist of the screwdriver. It's time for something big. That's why the fair tax transforms our economy. [applause]",
"And we don't punish workers. It's the only way we're going to get middle class people moving ahead again, because the harder they work, the more they keep. No payroll tax deducted from their checks. They get their entire paycheck. [applause]",
"And, one of the most important parts, it's built on the common sense with which we raised our kids, and trained dogs. You reward behavior you want more of. And, you punish behavior you want less of. That's how I raise kids, it's how I trained our dogs, and folks, it's not that difficult.",
"We now punish the behavior we say we want more of by taxing it, and we reward the behavior that we say we want less of, so if you make a good investment, we punish you with a tax. If you make a bad investment you can write that off and the rest of the taxpayers will help subsidize you, and bail you out. [applause]",
"HUCKABEE: Well, Rick, I'm pretty sure I did also fight the Clinton machine because every election I was ever in in Arkansas, I assure you, they were behind it, helping finance and campaign for every opponent.",
"And I share with you the understanding that it's going to be a tough battle. But I spent the first half of my adult life in the private and nonprofit sector, raising a family, understanding how tough it is for people to make it.",
"And that first half of my life is what led me to believe that America needs a different kind of leadership, not people who spent their whole life running from one office to the next, and living off the government dime. And I got involved because I got sick of what I saw.",
"I also believe that there's got to be some leadership that not only addresses the monetary and military issues of this country, but the moral issues of this country. At the end of every political speech, most of us say, God bless America.",
"But how can he do that when we continue to slaughter 4,000 babies a day? [applause]",
"And I want to be the president that treats every person, including the unborn, as a person. And protect them under the 5th and 14th amendments of the constitution. I close with this word from a gentleman in East Texas named Butel Lucre. He's 100 years old and I met him down in East Texas. And he said this to me. \"I sure wish, Mike, we had the days when The Ten Commandments were in all of our capitals and in every school, and we prayed again.",
"You know, he may be 100 years old, but I believe some of those old ideas to get this country back where we unapologetically get on our knees before we get on our feet might be the best solutions we've ever sought as a country. [applause] And I ask for your support and your vote.",
"Thank you. [applause]"
