"HUCKABEE: Well, first of all, Trish, I don't know why we have to move away from manufacturing. The only reason we have is because... [applause] ...we have a tax code that has punished manufacturing. I hear a lot of people talk about the plans to simplify the tax code. I've got one better than any of the simplifications, it's called a, \"Fair Tax\", and it eliminates all of the taxes on our productivity.",
"Here's what would happen. We'd get rid of taxes on people's work, so, we wouldn't punish people for working anymore. Yeah, we've lost five million manufacturing jobs just since the year 2000 — 160,000 manufacturing plants have close in this country, which means a lot of people — that the governors talking about, he's exactly right. They don't have jobs anymore.",
"And the reason they don't have jobs is because their jobs are in Mexico, they're in China, they're in Indonesia.",
"Bring the jobs back. And with the fair tax, you do that, because you don't tax capital and labor and you bring a real sense of equity to the opportunity so that people will not only make it easier to function, they'll get the manufacturing jobs back.",
"And here's the best part. We don't reduce the IRS, we get rid of the IRS. We completely eliminate them...[applause]...because the government has no business knowing how much money we make and how we made it. It's none of their business. And that's why I believe that manufacturing is critical. If we can't feed ourselves, fuel ourselves and fight for ourselves, we can't be free.",
"And by the way, fighting for ourselves means manufacturing our own weapons of self-defense.",
"HUCKABEE: Well, Sandra, first of all, let me mention the fact that I think there's a big difference between welfare programs and what some people call entitlements. Namely, Social Security and Medicare.",
"I just want to remind everybody out there who has ever had a paycheck, the government didn't ask you if you wanted them to take money out of your check for Social Security and Medicare. They did that involuntarily.",
"Those are not entitlements and that's not welfare. That's an earned benefit. And by gosh, you paid for it. And if the government screwed it up, you shouldn't have to pay the penalty because of an incompetent government.",
"That's different than the social programs that we've spent $2 trillion on since the War on Poverty began exactly 50 years ago this year.",
"Now the reason we still have so much poverty is because it was never designed to get people out of poverty. It was designed to make sure that there was an industry of poverty, so that the people in the poverty industry would have a lot of jobs. But the people who are poor haven't been benefited. Having grown up poor, I know a little something about it. Nobody who is poor wants to be. That's a nonsense statement and I hear it all the time. Well, poor people ought to work harder. They're working as hard as they can, for gosh sake.",
"But the problem is the system keeps pushing them down because, if they work, then they get punished. They lose all the benefits. When we did welfare reform in the '90s, you know what we did? We said you're not going to lose everything at once. There's not an arbitrary threshold. So as you move up the ladder from work and training, you'll actually always be better off than you were before. That's the American way.",
"HUCKABEE: Well, I'd just like to respond, with all due respect to, to the Governor, to the state just south of me, I would say that a lot of us have cut things. And during the recession of 2001 to 2003, when 91 percent of our state budget was basically three things, educate, medicate and incarcerate, we ended up cutting 11 percent out of the state budget through that recession so we didn't have to go in and raise a bunch of taxes, and there were people who thought we should.",
"So it's just not accurate to say that nobody else up here has ever cut. I believe every governor has probably had to make tough decisions. I'm, I'm guessing my colleague Governor Christie has, as I'm tossing him the ball like Arkansas did to Ol' Miss the other day.",
"UNIDENTIFIED: Why don't, why don't we...",
"HUCKABEE: Sandra, before we get too far away, he specifically brought out some things about the record that I need to correct.",
"HUCKABEE: Sandra, I've been concerned that this administration has not done anything to help stop the slaughter of Christians. We didn't help the Kurds, we said we would. But, the idea that we're just going to open our doors, and we have no idea who these people are — what we do know is that only one out of five of the so called, \"Syrian Refugees\", who went into Europe were actually Syrian. Many of them, we had no idea who they were. They weren't Syrian.",
"Are we going to open the doors so that the ISIS people will come on in, and we'll give them a place to say, and a good sandwich, and medical benefits? My gosh, we have $19 trillion dollars in debt, we can't even afford to take care of Americans.",
"So...[applause]...If we're going to do something for the Syrians...[applause]...let's find out who they really are, and the ones that are really in danger, let's help build an encampment for them, but closer to where they live, rather than bringing them here when they don't know the language, the culture — and, frankly, if we've got as many homeless people as we have, I'm not sure this makes any sense.",
"So, let's do it where we can best help them. Send them some food. But, let's ask the Saudi's to step up. I'm really tired of Americans being the only ones asked to do all the heavy lifting when it comes to charity, and, quite frankly, my number one concern right now is taking care of the fact that Americans are taking it in the gut without jobs. Many of them working two and three part time jobs. And, if America wants to do something great, let's get our economy growing again, stabilize the dollar, and we'll be in a much better position to help people around the world.",
"HUCKABEE: ...I'd like to get that opportunity to go...",
"HUCKABEE: Well, since we're not going to answer the question, let me just remind everybody, tomorrow is Veterans Day. And here's what I would like to remind everybody. The VA has been a disaster in large part because the people in Congress have never bothered to fix it, and this president has certainly not...",
"HUCKABEE: Let me finish, please. I'm going to ask you just this, what would happen if the Congress and the president had to get their health care from the VA? We would fix the problem and we would fix Congress. [cheering and applause]",
"HUCKABEE: Well, thank you very much.",
"I still want to go back to the fact that if we got rid of all the taxes on our work, got rid of the taxes on our savings, investments, capital gains, and inheritance, and made a zero tax, we'd pay at the point of consumption.",
"Because why should we punish people for their productivity? And the fair tax doesn't punish people for doing well and building the economy. There's $31 trillion parked offshore. What happens if that money comes back to America? You'd think it'd goose the economy? I guarantee you it would.",
"And that's why the fair tax is the best solution we have for economic growth in this country. [applause]",
"HUCKABEE: Well, first of all, do you know an American that will just stop spending? I don't. [laughter]",
"No, that's not going to be the problem. Look, Americans will go to the marketplace with more money they've ever had. For the first time they'll be having their whole paycheck.",
"You see, most people don't understand that when you buy something that is made in America, 22 percent of the cost of it is the embedded tax they never even know they paid. It's why China has beaten the daylights out of us, they can build stuff that we can't because they're not taxing it, when they don't tax capital and labor and we do.",
"They bring something over here, it's automatically cheaper even without the regulatory environment because they're not embedding the taxes, we are.",
"Take the embedded taxes out. Give a person his whole paycheck because every American would no longer have a payroll tax taken out. It means they'd see their real paycheck for the first time. When they go to spend that money, they'll actually have it.",
"And they only pay taxes on the stuff that's new. So a lot of Americans will buy used stuff. Look, here's the point, Americans are not going to quit shopping. Americans are not going to quit buying.",
"But it would be nice if Americans could control how much they paid in tax, rather than having the government reach into their pockets and take it out before they ever had a chance to even see it, much less spend it. [applause]",
"And that's why the fair tax makes a heck of a lot more sense than punishing productivity and rewarding irresponsibility.",
"HUCKABEE: Well, my wife's name is Janet and when you say Janet Yelling, I'm very familiar with what you mean. [laughter]",
"But, look, I think the Fed is in a big trouble because they haven't addressed the number one issue that's hurting Americans and that's the fact that wages for the bottom 90 percent of the economy have been stagnant for 40 years.",
"In the 25 years after World War II, up to 1971, wages grew by 85 percent in this country. People were — were moving up in the middle class. There was a middle class.",
"That's not happening any more, and in large measure, the Fed has manipulated the dollar so it doesn't have a standard.",
"Tie the dollar to something fixed and if it's not going to be gold, make it the commodity basket.",
"But here's what we've got to do. We absolutely have to get it where the people who go out there and work get something in return.",
"And if the dollar keeps fluctuating, and this is as crazy as — as is the price of bread, well, the fact is, people can't get ahead then.",
"HUCKABEE: Absolutely. Absolutely, because what we need to is to make sure that they tie the monetary standard to something that makes sense, rather than to their own whims, because who's getting gut punched?",
"It ain't the people in Wall Street, it's the folks on Main Street. They're the ones who's wages have been stagnant for 40 years. And the average American today has a total savings of 1,000 bucks. One root canal and they're in trouble.",
"And if their car breaks down the same week...[buzzer noise]...they're out of business.",
"HUCKABEE: Well, I think thanking our veterans is a wonderful thing to do, but, they sure appreciate a better paycheck. They'd appreciate the fact that we kept our promises to them. The men and women in uniform put on the uniform of our nation, they went halfway around the world, they face dangers on our behalf, and we promised them if they did that, when they came home we'd take care of their medical care, we'd make is possible for their kids to go to college, and they'd be able to bind to a home.",
"They kept their promises to us. We have not kept our promises to them, and today, less than one percent of Americans go to the military for service. We're fighting wars with other people's kids in large measure because we've not taken seriously the moral, not the monetary, the moral obligation to take care of the veterans and to keep America's promise to the ones who kept their promise to America. [applause]",
"HUCKABEE: In many ways, I feel like I'm the luckiest guy on Earth. I really do. It's a long way from a little brick rent house on second street in Hope, Arkansas to this stage where I'm running for President of the United States. It's not about me, not about these guys — 'ought to be about you, and I've never been the favorite of the people who have the most money.",
"But, I want to be the favorite of the people who still want to believe the American dream can work for them. Today in our office, I got a letter from a third grader in North Dakota, her name is Reese.",
"She sent $6 dollars from her allowance, and said, \"I want to help you be president.\"",
"You know, I'm going to keep standing on this stage, and keep fighting for one reason, because somewhere out there in North Dakota, and all over America, there are kids like Reese who need a president who will never forget where they came from, and I promise I won't. [applause]"
