"HUCKABEE: Certainly there's a middle ground, George. And the middle ground is that we win this war and we do it with honor. We don't just stay indefinitely. We put some pressure—just like we have been the last week, with Secretary Rice and Secretary Gates—on the Saudis.",
"HUCKABEE: Look, we've made them rich. Every time somebody in this room goes to the gas pump, you've helped make the Saudi royal family a little wealthier. And the money that has been used against us in terrorism has largely come from the Middle East.",
"There's two things we've got to do.",
"Number one, we've got to insist that the people in that neighborhood take a far greater role militarily and financially in solving the problem. It's their neighborhood.",
"But the second thing we'd do, for our own national security, is end our dependence on foreign oil. And let's not play around and say \"30 years,\" let's get it done. Let's get it done now. And let's make sure that we don't have to depend upon their oil for our future energy needs.",
"HUCKABEE: If we can feed ourselves, if we can fuel ourselves, if we can manufacture the weapons to fight for ourselves, we're a free people. If we can't do those three things, we're not free.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"HUCKABEE: I think I'd like to side with the people of America who really are looking for a lot better action than they're getting out of their president or Congress. You know, if you want to know how to fix it, I've got a solution. Either give every American the same kind of health care that Congress has, or make Congress have the same kind of health care that every American has.",
"(APPLAUSE) They'll get it fixed. And the issue in this country is that we really have an incredible problem because our system is upside-down. It focuses on intervention at the catastrophic level of disease rather than really focusing on prevention. So we've got a system that, no matter how much money we pour into it, we're not going to fix it.",
"HUCKABEE: We're not going to fix it until we begin to address the fact that this country has put its focus not on wellness, not on prevention, not on health, but on sickness. And that's the single most important and urgent thing that has to be done. And if we don't do that, then we're going to continue just pouring money—and it's almost like having a boat that's taking on water, and rather than plugging the hole, we want to get a bigger bucket to take the water out of the boat.",
"HUCKABEE: The problem with it, it actually would bring cuts to the Medicare alternative, which is the worst thing we could do, because it then takes money away from seniors.",
"HUCKABEE: So, again, it's just not a good solution...",
"(CROSSTALK)",
"HUCKABEE: Well, the problem is, George, sometimes when you get what you want, you don't want what you get. And this is a great case of that happening. I don't think it's the job of the United States to export our form of government. It's the job of the United States to protect our citizens, to secure our own borders, which we have failed to do for over 20 years. It's the job of our government to make us free and us safe, and to create an enviable kind of government and system that everybody else will want, much in the same way I think we ended up seeing the fall of the Soviet Union. And as far as how do we get there...",
"HUCKABEE: Absolutely not, because I don't think we can force people to accept our way of life, our way of government. What we can to is to create the strongest America: change our tax system, make it so that people are healthier, create the enviable education system on this planet, make sure that jobs come back to this country rather than disappear from this country.",
"HUCKABEE: And if we do that kind of approach, we'll have the sort of freedom internally, secure borders, a safer nation. That makes a whole lot more sense to me than spending billions and billions and billion of dollars to try to prop up some government we don't even like when we get it. And people in this country are losing their jobs, losing their health insurance, and their kids are sitting with their heads on their desks, sound asleep in school.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"HUCKABEE: Well, I think the obvious answer is, it's not necessarily that we raise a tax to fix what we ought to fix of this country. We're spending billions of dollars all over our country and around the world, but it may be time that we start spending some of those billions of dollars to deal with our own infrastructure. And the bridge isn't the only problem. Anybody who's flown lately—as I do pretty regularly in the commercial system—know that we have a complete gridlock.",
"HUCKABEE: And part of that problem is we've got a system of air traffic control that was designed in 1950, five years before I was born. We've got better navigation systems in our rental cars than we have running the airline industry today. And so, yes, we need to address it. It's not being talked about. And it's our bridges, our interstates, our sewer and water treatment systems. They're crumbling. They're old. We saw an 85-year-old steam pipe explode in the middle of Manhattan recently. And we have to start addressing building this country, not everybody else's.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"HUCKABEE: I absolutely support the fair tax. And part of the reason is, the current system is one that penalizes productivity. A recent poll showed that more Americans fear an audit of the IRS than they do getting mugged. And the reason is, getting mugged isn't as painless as an audit from the IRS.",
"(LAUGHTER) And the reality is, if we could have the fair tax, you take $10 trillion parked offshore, bring it home, you rebuild the \"made in America\" brand, you free up people to earn money, to work, you don't penalize them for taking a second job, you don't penalize them for investing, you don't penalize them for savings. Today, our tax system doesn't need a tap of the hammer, a twist of the screwdriver, it needs a complete overhaul. And what the fair tax does, it ends the underground economy. No more illegals...",
"HUCKABEE: Let me, if I may. No more illegals, no more gamblers, prostitutes, pimps and dope dealers will be able to escape the tax code.",
"HUCKABEE: It's the single great thing that will help this country (inaudible) revitalized economy.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"HUCKABEE: No, it's actually better than that, Mitt, it's even better than that.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"HUCKABEE: They didn't look at that...",
"(CROSSTALK)",
"HUCKABEE: I think probably the greatest mistake I made was not taking good care of my own personal health for the first half of my life. And that's been one of the most transformational things I've done, and I just wish I'd started much earlier.",
"HUCKABEE: I would put the very same frame on my wall in the White House I did as governor for 10 and a half years. It's a frame that has a photo, and underneath the photo it says, \"Our boss.\" My picture was never in that frame in 10 and a half years. Every week or so, we'd put the picture of some ordinary Arkansas citizen. And I told our staff, let's never forget who the real boss is. I hope every day I'd never forget I work for those people; they don't work for me. I'd like to be the kind of president that's more concerned about the people on Main Street, not just the folks on Wall Street. And we need that kind of Republican running, that kind of Republican winning.",
"I'd never forget who the boss really, really is.",
"(APPLAUSE)"