"HUNTER: Yes, George, I've been here before. I was here when we stood up to the Russians in Central Europe when they were ringing our allies with SS-20 missiles. We stood up them and we finally brought that wall down.",
"I was here when we did Central America, when the liberals were raging that we had to get out of Salvador. Today, Salvadoran troops are standing side-by-side with Americans in Iraq.",
"And let me tell you something I'm tired of. I watched the Democrat debate. I watched them say, as my colleague has said, \"Just bring them home. Come home.\" And it was a race to see who could stampede for the exit the quickest.",
"And you know something? The Marines in Anbar province, which is almost half of Iraq, have turned that situation around. They brought the communities there on our side, fighting back against Al Qaida. Not a single Democrat...",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"Not a single Democrat candidate paused in their rush for the exit to say to our Marines, \"Good job. You guys are fighting and achieving, with blood, sweat and tears, what this country needs.\" We've got our best military leadership in Iraq right now. We are standing up the Iraq military, the 129 battalions. When they are stood up, when they're reliable, battle-ready, they rotate onto the battlefield, they displace American heavy combat forces. That's the right way to leave, not a stampede for the exit.",
"HUNTER: Yeah. Let's get back to freedom. One thing you can't do right now, if you're an American who has a health insurance plan is you can't buy health insurance across state lines. Now, we've seen studies that have shown that the same coverage that costs 750 bucks a month in Massachusetts, you can buy in Missouri for 170 bucks a month.",
"HUNTER: But you can't buy your health insurance across state lines like Americans buy lots of stuff across state lines. George, you know, I had a senior citizen come into my office one day. She had a $10 wrist brace on. And she said, \"I was told not to complain about this, because government is paying for it.\" She gave me the bill. It was $525. That—you're going to see a lot of $525 wrist braces if we pass—if we continue to pass this SCHIP which really is the first extension of socialized medicine. This is socialized medicine. It's going to go to families that make $60,000 a year. Those aren't poor children.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"HUNTER: Yes, I disagree with it.",
"(CROSSTALK)",
"HUNTER: George, let me tell you, Barack Obama didn't understand, there are now 100,000 Pakistani troops who have been moved to the border. They have moved two divisions to the border, in fact, one of them out of the high country on the Indian border. You right now have operations that are being taken in cooperation with American forces in Afghanistan. The last thing you do when you are trying to convince your allies all over the world to work with you is when you have one country which has taken 100,000 military personnel and moved them into that place—and we all know what the problem is. The problem is that you have the tribal chiefs in that strip in Pakistan accommodating the Taliban and Al Qaida. When you have a country which is cooperating, you don't tell them you are going to unilaterally move against them, or you are somehow going to undertake this by yourself.",
"HUNTER: Those mountain ranges in Pakistan are 16,000 feet high. We need the Pakistani army to work that with American support. That's the right way.",
"HUNTER: George, it depends on the credentials of the president. I served in Vietnam—didn't do anything special, but I wore the uniform. I've been the chairman of the Armed Services Committee for the last four years. And my son has now done two tours in Iraq and one in Afghanistan. I can look the American people in the eye and say, \"We're all in this together.\" So I would not share the role of commander in chief with a vice president. If you've got other folks that have less background in national security, they're going to need to have a vice president that they rely on much more.",
"HUNTER: Because of what I learned and was forced to realize. Think of a major mistake. Contemplating running as a Democrat in my very first...",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"HUNTER: I think restoring what I call economic patriotism. You know, in World War I, World War II and the Cold War, we rode to victory on the arsenal of democracy. That's our great industrial base, our ability to make things in this country, this magnificent manufacturing capability, which right now we're pushing offshore, pushing to China, pushing to India, pushing to Japan.",
"I would stop China from cheating on trade. I would level the playing field. I would bring back that arsenal of democracy that we need, not only for high-paying jobs in this country but also to defend the country.",
"And lastly, when my kid came back from Iraq, he wrote a great letter. And the last part of that letter said, \"Families lift this country up. They provide us with fidelity, morality, faith in God, and raising the next generation of Americans.\"",
"Our work: to make sure that we elevate the American family and make a life of opportunity for that next generation of Americans.",
"(APPLAUSE)"
