"Hunter: Yes. Cooper, a great debate. It's nice to listen to lots of statements about what the other candidates will do with respect to the borders.",
"I built that border fence in San Diego and it does work. It's a ...",
"(Applause)",
"You know, we built a double fence. We had the number one smuggler's corridor in America with most of the illegal aliens and most of the drugs that came into the entire country coming in through that number one corridor between Tijuana, Mexico, and San Diego, California.",
"We built the double-border fence with a road in between, and we reduced the smuggling of people and drugs by more than 90 percent. And as a result of that, the crime rate...",
"(Applause)",
"... the crime rate in the city of San Diego went down by 53 percent by FBI statistic. And as a result of that, I wrote the law that the president signed last October 26, incidentally, passed the Senate 80-19, that mandates 854 miles of double-border fence across Arizona, New Mexico and Texas.",
"Now, the administration has $800 million on hand right now, cash on hand. They haven't built a linear inch of that fence in Texas.",
"As president of the United States, I would bill the double-border fence, all 854 miles, in six months.",
"Hunter: That is my commitment.",
"(Applause)",
"Hunter: You know, I came in with Ronald Reagan in 1980 to cut taxes, and I probably voted for more tax cuts than anybody here.",
"But you could have an emergency, a time of war, and I think it would be wrong to say, \"Absolutely, I would pledge to Grover Norquist that I would never raise taxes.\" Could have a national emergency.",
"Hunter: China is cheating on trade, and they're using that $200 billion trade deficit over the United States to buy ships, planes and missiles. They are clearly arming.",
"And it's in the interest of the United States...",
"(Applause)",
"... to stop China's cheating. My bill, incidentally, that's up right now would do that.",
"But what we all ought to do in this Christmas season, with about a month to go before Christmas is buy American.",
"That might hire the young person. That'll result in a...",
"(Applause)",
"You know, that just might keep your neighbor from losing his job, and it might help that young person coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan in uniform to have a job when they get back.",
"Let's buy American this Christmas season.",
"Hunter: Well, first I've got to inform Jay that as a guy who got his first hunting license at the age of 10 and really believes in the right to keep and bear arms, and used them in the military, as my son did in Fallujah, you should never throw a gun to a person. He should have taken that gun handed-off from his fellow hunter. So you have to be safe with guns, Jay.",
"But the right to keep and bear arms is an important element of community security, home security, and national security. I think it is a tradition of the American soldier.",
"From Bunker Hill to New Orleans to the rooftops of Fallujah, the right to keep and bear arms and use them effectively is an important part of America's security. And I will strongly enforce the Second Amendment as president of the United States.",
"Hunter: I have an old 20-gauge L.C. Smith that is just like the gun that my dad used to carry when I would walk behind him as a 9- year-old kid and pick up the shells when he was hunting quail. I finally got a chance to buy one of those a few years ago, the same gun that he had had and given to me when I was nine or ten year old when I bought my first hunting license.",
"The right to keep and bear arms in the Second Amendment is a large part protection. It is also a large part family tradition.",
"Hunter: Cooper, Cooper, very simply, to the critics of America I would say this. When you were faced with disease and starvation, the Americans brought food and medicine. When you had earthquakes and tsunamis and floods, the Americans came and helped you. And when you were threatened from outside, the Americans left the safety of their own homes to come and defend you.",
"I will never apologize for the United States of America.",
"(Applause)",
"Hunter: I'm Duncan Hunter, and I approved this message.",
"(End video clip)",
"(Commercial break)",
"(Begin videotape)",
"Hunter: General, thanks for your service, but I believe in what Colin Powell said when he said that having openly homosexual people serving in the ranks would be bad for unit cohesion.",
"The reason for that, even though people point to the Israelis and point to the Brits and point to other people as having homosexuals serve, is that most Americans, most kids who leave that breakfast table and go out and serve in the military and make that corporate decision with their family, most of them are conservatives.",
"They have conservative values, and they have Judeo-Christian values. To force those people to work in a small tight unit with somebody who is openly homosexual goes against what they believe to be their principles, and it is their principles, is I think a disservice to them. I agree with Colin Powell that it would be bad for unit cohesion."
