"HUNTSMAN: Let me say -- let me say, first are all, with respect to Governor Romney, you know, there are a lot of people who are tuning in this morning, and I'm sure they're terribly confused after watching all of this political spin up here.",
"I was criticized last night by Governor Romney for putting my country first. And I just want to remind the people here in New Hampshire and throughout the United States that I think...[applause]",
"He criticized me while he was out raising money for serving my country in China, yes, under a Democrat, like my two sons are doing in the United States Navy. They're not asking who -- what political affiliation the president is.",
"I want to be very clear with the people here in New Hampshire and this country: I will always put my country first. And I think that's important to them.",
"HUNTSMAN: This nation is divided, David, because of attitudes like that. [applause]",
"The American people are tired of the partisan division. They have had enough. There is no trust left among the American people and the institutions of power and among the American people and our elected officials. And I say, we've had enough, and we have to change our direction in terms of coming together as Americans first and foremost and finding solutions to our problems.",
"HUNTSMAN: Well, I would have to say that I agree with the Ryan plan. I think I'm the only one standing up here who has embraced the Ryan plan. It's a very aggressive approach to taking about $6.2 trillion out of the budget over 10 years. And it looks at everything.",
"And what I like about it is it says there will be no sacred cows. Medicare won't be a sacred cow. Department of Defense won't be a sacred cow. As president of the United States, I'm going to stand up and I'm going to say, we are where we are, 24 percent spending as a percentage of GDP. We've got to move to 19 percent...[crosstalk]",
"HUNTSMAN: Well, let me just say on -- on entitlements, across the board, I will tell the upper-income category in this country that there will be means testing. There are a lot of people in this nation who don't need...[crosstalk]",
"HUNTSMAN: Absolutely. Absolutely. And also, I'm not going to tie Department of Defense spending to some percentage of GDP. I'm going to tie it to a strategy that protects the American people. And if we think that we can't find efficiencies and cuts in the Department of Defense budget, then we are crazy.",
"HUNTSMAN: It was -- it was a silly format. I mean it was an important question they asked us to raise our hands. I mean for heaven's sake, we didn't get a chance to talk about it. I put a tax reform proposal on the table endorsed by the Wall Street Journal that goes farther than anybody elses on this stage. It calls for what absolutely needs to be done. And everybody knows about it.",
"We are so chock full of loopholes and deductions, it weighs down our tax code to the tune of $1 trillion, $100 billion. You can't compete that way. It gives rise to lobbying on Capitol Hill that needs to clean up. We've got to phase out loopholes and deductions in total. And we've got to say, so long to corporate welfare and to subsidies. Because this country can no longer afford it. And we've got to prepare for competition in the twenty first century.",
"HUNTSMAN: I think it comes down to one word, David, and I think the one word is trust. When the American people look at the political process play out, they hear all the spinning and all the doctrinaire language, and they still walk away with the belief that they're not being represented in Congress, that there's no trust in the executive branch. And the Simpson-Bowles bipartisan proposal lands right on the desk of Barack Obama, and it lands in the garbage can.",
"The first press conference I had when I ran for governor in 2004 was on ethics in government service. I talked about term limits. I talked about campaign finance reform. I talked about the role of lobbyists and knew I wouldn't make a lot of friends. I had one member of the legislature who supported me in that run. We won, because we had the will of the people. And I believe the next president -- and if that is to be me, I want to roam around this country and I want to generate the level of excitement and enthusiasm that I know exists among the American people to bring term limits to Congress, to close the revolving door...[applause]...on members going right on out and become a lobbyist. We've got to start with the structural problems. There is no trust...",
"HUNTSMAN: No. We have people in need. We have people suffering. And this is a challenge that we need to address.",
"But I believe we're not going to be able to effectively confront it head-on until such time as this nation begins to move more toward greater energy diversity and energy independence.",
"One of the first things I would do as president is I would take a look at that one product distribution bias that always favors one product, and that's oil. And I'd say, if we're going to do what this nation needs to be done, in terms of using a multiplicity of products that we have in such diversity and abundance and get them to the customers, we're going to have to break up that one product distribution monopoly.",
"And I want to do to that oil distribution monopoly what we did to broadcast communication in the -- in the early 1970s. We blew it apart. And we went to the Federal Trade Commission and said we need more. We need diverse sources to draw from. We need -- we need to service the consumers.",
"I believe if we're going to do what needs to be done from an energy independence standpoint, all products -- getting the products to the customer, we've got to disrupt that one product monopoly that does not serve this country well nor its consumers.",
"HUNTSMAN: It is the fulfillment of a citizenry being able to live out the meaning of our founding documents: life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. And everywhere I've gone in this great state -- and we've done 160-plus public events... [applause]... I feel it, and I sense it, and people take that very seriously. You know what else they take seriously? They take seriously the idea of real leadership.",
"I've heard a lot of obfuscating up here, the blame game, talking about gays, talking about unions. Everybody's got something nasty to say. You know what the people of this country are waiting for and the people of -- they want a leader who is going to unify, who's going to bring us together. Because at the end of the day, that's what leadership is all about.",
"It's not about taking on different groups and vilifying them for whatever reason. It's about projecting a vision for a more hopeful tomorrow. That's why there is no trust in this country today. And that's why, as president, I'm going to attack that trust deficit just as aggressively as I attack that economic deficit. Because with no trust, I can't think of anything more corrosive longer term to the people of this nation."
