"HUNTSMAN: I think people, Neil, are coming around to finding that I am the consistent conservative in this race. They are coming around to find that I am not going to pander. I am not going to contort myself into a pretzel to please any audience I'm in front of. And I'm not going to sign those silly pledges.",
"And you know what else? I'm not going to show up at a Donald Trump debate. [laughter] [applause]",
"HUNTSMAN: This nation has been downgraded. This nation is on the cusp of the third government shutdown. We have been kicked around as people. We are getting screwed as Americans. And I'm here to tell you, we are going to lead charge in doing what must be done in addressing the two deficits we have.",
"We have an economic deficit in this country, and is it going to shipwreck the next generation unless we can deal with it. And we have a trust deficit. People in this country don't trust the institutions of power anymore.",
"We need to go to Congress and we need to say, you need term limits. We need to go to Congress and say, we need to close that revolving door that allows members of Congress to file on out and lobby.",
"And we need to go to Wall Street and say, no trust there either, because we have banks that are \"too big to fail.\" And I'm telling you, Neil, I'm the person who is going to leave the charge on all of the above and fix the economic deficit, but I'm going fix this country's trust deficit, because we're too good as people to be in the hole we're in and we deserve better. [applause]",
"30 seconds down the line. Start with Senator Santorum.",
"HUNTSMAN: Leadership is action, not words. And I learned a very important lesson about this when I ran for governor in 2004. I promised the people of my state as governor that we would create the finest state in America for business. I ran on a flat-tax proposal. It took us two years; we got it delivered.",
"Flat -- I hear a lot of people talking about tax reform and a flat -- we actually got one done. The finest business in the United States, we delivered to our people. Health care reform without a mandate. The list went on and on and on.",
"I ran for re-election. I got almost 80 percent of the vote, not because I'm a great politician, but I learned some lessons in leadership, that people want to be told where you can take them, and then they want you to deliver.",
"Now, during the break, you can head there and check it out. And if you have a suggested question or a follow-up to something you've heard, tweet @bretbaier. We'll be using some of those suggested questions tonight.",
"[commercial break]",
"[begin video clip]",
"STRAWN: Good evening from Sioux City in northwest Iowa. I'm Matt Strawn, chairman of the Iowa GOP. Four years after repelling Barack Obama to the White House, Iowa has seen a surge of new Republican voters as Iowa Republicans have posted 33 straight months of voter registration gains. And as those Republicans prepare to vote in just 19 days, we understand the responsibility that comes with the privilege of being first in the nation.",
"And because the fight to reclaim the White House extends far beyond Iowa's borders, we want you to be the first to know. So text \"Iowa\" to 91919 to know the results and other updates. Thank you and now let's return to the final debate before the January 3 Iowa Caucus.",
"[end video clip]",
"But his comments dovetail with arguments you hear from Democrats that your belief in, what's called, the creative destruction of capitalism, shows a hardheartedness. What do you think of what Speaker Gingrich had to say about you? And are you vulnerable to that kind of attack?",
"HUNTSMAN: Well, it's a large and complicated relationship. It's part trade, it's part North Korea, it's part Iran, part Pakistan, part Burma, part South China Sea, party military-to-military engagement. You move one end of the relationship, it impacts the other.",
"The best thing to do, invite a few dissidents who are seeking freedom and want to expand democracy in China to the United States embassy, the kind of thing that I used to do. That is what matters to the Chinese people who are looking for change and looking for reform these days.",
"That is the kind of thing that over time is going to create enough swell of change and reform in that country that is going to make the U.S.-China relationship successful longer term.",
"Because eventually, we need more than just a transactional relationship. We need shared values infused into this relationship. Let's face it, the 21st Century will only have two relationships that matter: the United States and China.",
"For that to succeed, we need shared values. That is democracy. That is human rights. That is recognition of the role of the Internet in society. That is greater tolerance toward religion, and so much more.",
"As president of the United States, I would drive that home. And I would make it a relationship that worked.",
"HUNTSMAN: One of the reasons I'm optimistic about the future of this country is because we have rule of law. Let's face it. One of the great things that this country has that very few other countries have. So the Judiciary is critically important.",
"It's also important to note that governors actually some experience appointing judges. You got to make those hard decisions. And as I reflect on those who today serve I've got to say Justice Roberts and Justice Alito fit the bill very, very nicely.",
"[commercial break]",
"Fired-up crowd, they're ready for hour number two. And we begin hour number two with an important topic, foreign policy.",
"Congressman Paul, many Middle East experts now say Iran may be less than one year away from getting a nuclear weapon. Now, judging from your past statements, even if you had solid intelligence that Iran, in fact, was going to get a nuclear weapon, President Paul would remove the U.S. sanctions on Iran, included those added by the Obama administration. So, to be clear, GOP nominee Paul would be running left of President Obama on the issue of Iran?",
"HUNTSMAN: I think the United Nations serves a useful purpose in the area of peacekeeping and some humanitarian work. Beyond that, I hate the anti-Americanism. I hate the anti-Israel sentiment.",
"But let me tell you what this nation needs and what it is going to get under a Huntsman administration. It needs a new foreign policy. We need to update it a little bit. We are still trapped a little bit in the Cold War, George Tenet mind set.",
"I want to make sure that first and foremost we have a foreign policy, and a the national security strategy that recognizes that we have to fix our core here at home. We are weak. This economy is broken. When we are strong, we project values of goodness that transform and change people like no military can -- liberty, democracy, human rights and free markets.",
"We have got to fix this core first and foremost if we are going to be effective overseas. And that is what i want to focus on.",
"Second of all, I want to make sure that...",
"HUNTSMAN: Let me just get the second point.",
"Second of all, I want a foreign policy -- I want a foreign policy that is driven by economics first. Let me just tell you, its used to break my heart sitting in embassy in Beijing the second largest embassy in the world looking at Afghanistan with 100,000 troops. We are securing the place, the Chinese go in and they win the mining concession. There is something wrong with that picture.",
"We need to change the way we're doing business.",
"Governor Perry, given the grim details of the recent United Nations report on the Syrian regime killing and torturing its own people, thousands of people said to be killed at the hands of the Assad regime. At what point should the U.S. consider military intervention there?",
"HUNTSMAN: It's always going to be a balancing act. We've got land that everybody respects and appreciates, but the job we've got to undertake as American people is to fuel our future.",
"We have no choice. I mean, our economy has hit the wall. I want to get rid of that heroin-like addiction we have based on imported oil. Three hundred billion dollars transfers every year from this country to a lot of unpredictable and relationships that are no more than transactional.",
"In order to get to where this country needs to be, we need a relationship with Canada from which we can draw raw materials. But I also want to make sure that I'm able as president to disrupt the oil monopoly. There's a one-product monopoly in terms of product distribution in this country. If we're going to achieve real energy independence, we're going to have to be able to draw from a multiplicity of products like natural gas.",
"We wake up to the reality [inaubible] in this country that we have more natural gas than Saudi Arabia has oil, I say, how stupid are we? When are we going to get with the picture and start converting to transportation, converting to manufacturing, converting to electricity and power generation? It is completely within our grasp.",
"It's going to require a president who understands that -- that delicate balance and who's going to be able to go out with an aggressive plan toward energy independence -- independence that gets it done for this country. [applause]",
"HUNTSMAN: Well, I think the Republican candidate has to speak based on our values, the values of the Republican Party. Limited government, pro-growth, these are the things that the Hispanic and the Latino populations are going to be looking for.",
"You don't need to pander. You just need to be -- we need to be who we are. But in terms of immigration, and illegal immigration, this president has so screwed up this economy, nobody is coming anymore. There is nothing to come for. I mean, there's not a problem today. Just take a look at the numbers coming across.",
"I mean, the numbers, it was posted the other day, lowest in four decades. So I say, you know, we have got to secure the border, of course. We have got to deal with the 11, 12 million people who are here.",
"But let's not lose sight of the fact that legal immigration is an engine of growth for this country. Half of the Fortune 500 companies in this country today were founded by immigrants.",
"We have lost probably -- well, our market share of travel and tourism has gone from 7 percent to 12 percent because our visa system is so screwed up in this nation. So you've got to look at the Department of Homeland Security.",
"You've got to completely remake the way that people are moving back and forth, our H1-B visa system, how we are dealing with the movement of people, how we are dealing with immigration. This is an economic development opportunity and we are missing it. [applause]",
"HUNTSMAN: I actually worked for Ronald Reagan. And I think he would have been the first to stand up and say: Debate is good. It must be respectful, and it must be rigorous.",
"A rigorous debate will lead to greater trust. And the one thing this nation needs desperately today is heightened trust, in our institutions, in our tax code, in our wars abroad, in Congress, toward Wall Street.",
"And I'm here to tell you that this kind of debate over time is going to elevate the trust level in whomever makes it out as the nominee. That will allow us to beat Barack Obama.",
"Thank you. [applause]"