"JINDAL: Hi, I'm Bobby Jindal.",
"Now, look, I don't have a famous last name. My daddy didn't run for president. I don't have a reality TV show. I'll tell you what I do have, I've got the backbone, I've got the bandwidth, I've got the experience to get us through these tough times, to make sure that we don't turn the American dream into the European nightmare. Thank you for having me today. [applause]",
"JINDAL: Well, Jake, I'm in compliance with the 11th Commandment, and I would tell my fellow Republicans, let's stop treating Donald Trump like a Republican. If he were really a conservative... [applause]",
"If he were really a conservative and 30 points ahead, I would endorse him. He's not a conservative. He's not a liberal. He's not a Democrat. He's not a Republican. He's not an independent. He believes in Donald Trump.",
"Here is the reality, the idea of America is slipping away. Eighteen trillion dollars of debt, Planned Parenthood selling baby parts across our country. Our government is creating a new entitlement program, when we can't afford the government we've got today.",
"We've got a president who won't even say the words radical Islamic terrorism. He has declared war on trans fats and a truce with Iran. Think about that. He's more worried about Twinkies than he is about the ayatollahs having a nuclear weapon. [applause] That's what is happening, the idea of America is slipping away. We must not let that happen on our watch. We have a once in a lifetime opportunity to rescue the idea of America, the choice for conservatives. Do we depend on proven conservative principles like Ronald Reagan did, or do we turn this over to a narcissist who only believes in himself...",
"JINDAL: Thank you, Jake. [applause]",
"JINDAL: Absolutely. Look, the reality is, Hillary Clinton is gift-wrapping this election to us. They are running their weakest candidate. They have got a socialist that is gaining on Hillary Clinton. Folks, you can't make that up. A socialist is doing well in the Democratic primary.",
"The best way for us to give this election back would be to nominate a Donald Trump. He'll implode in the general election, or if, God forbid, if he were in the White House, we have no idea what he would do.",
"You can't just attack him on policy. He doesn't care about policy. It's not enough to say he was for socialized medicine or higher taxes...",
"JINDAL: He's not serious.",
"JINDAL: Yeah, I wanted to clarify -- I want to make very clear that everybody understands my position is, we need to secure the border, period.",
"Any talk of doing any more -- we don't need a comprehensive plan, don't need an 1,000-page bill, like the Gang of Eight. We don't need amnesty.",
"Everybody in D.C. talks about it. We need to get it done. As president, I'll get it done in six months. It won't be perfect, but we can get it done.",
"I'm not for amnesty. We do need to secure the border. A smart immigration makes our -- our country stronger. Right now, we've got a weak one.",
"One of the things I've said -- I know the left -- I know Hillary didn't like this -- immigration without assimilation is invasion. We need to insist the people who come here come here legally, learn English, adopt our values, roll up their sleeves and get to work. We do need to secure the border. [applause]",
"JINDAL: Dana, that's not right. What I've said consistently is secure the border. I've said after that is done, the American people will deal with the folks that are here pragmatically and compassionately.",
"Now, Rick, if he wants to say that Rubio, Senator Rubio, or Jeb or others are for amnesty, that's his right. I'm not for amnesty. I've never been for amnesty, will never be for amnesty.",
"Secure the border. We don't need to do that as a comprehensive -- I've also said we need to put an end to sanctuary cities. It's not enough to defund them; I think we need to criminalize, accuse and jail those mayors and councilman as accessories...",
"(UNKNOWN): Thank you, Governor.",
"JINDAL: ... for the crimes committed by people who shouldn't be here in the first place. [applause]",
"JINDAL: Jake, look, America's the most compassionate country in the entire world. We do more for folks around this world, and that's the nature of the American people.",
"Two things. One, let us draw line, a direct line, between this refugee crisis, and this president's failed foreign policy.",
"Jake, look, America is the most compassionate country in the entire world. We do more for folks around this world. And that's the nature of the American people.",
"Two things: one, let us draw a line, a direct line between this refugee crisis and this president's failed foreign policy. He drew a red line in Syria and did not enforce it and now we're seeing millions of refugees potentially, hundreds of thousands going into Europe.",
"The answer is not to put a Band-aid on this and allow even more people to come into America. We should not short-circuit; we have got a vetting process, we've got a normal refugee process. Simply allowing more into our country doesn't solve this problem.",
"The way to solve this problem is for us to be clear to our friends and allies that we're going to replace Assad, we're going to hunt down and destroy ISIS; our friends don't trust us, our enemies don't fear and respect us.",
"But I want to go back on immigration. Let me be very clear. Immigration, we need to insist on assimilation in immigration. My parents came here legally almost 45 years ago. They came here, they followed the rule of law. They knew English, they adopted the values. They didn't come here to be hyphenated Americans. They're not Indian Americans. They're not Asian Americans. They're --",
"JINDAL: We -- it is important we insist on that in immigration going --",
"JINDAL: Look, absolutely. We need to do whatever is necessary to hunt down and kill these radical Islamic terrorists but this president has helped -- his policies have helped to contribute to this problem.",
"He went to the Pentagon the same week they announced they were cutting back the number of troops in the Army to say that we're not going to win this through guns, it's going to be a change of hearts and minds. This will be a generational conflict, that is nonsense. These are barbarians.",
"They are burning, crucifying people alive, Christians and other Muslims. We need to hunt them down and --",
"JINDAL: -- by having a president willing to --",
"JINDAL: -- Islamic --",
"JINDAL: Well, Jake, look, I think the American people -- we don't discriminate anybody based on the color of their skin or their creed. I think the way you strike that balance, you say to Muslim leaders, they have got two responsibilities.",
"One, it's not enough to denounce just simply generic acts of violence. They have got to denounce the individuals by name, and say these are not martyrs. These terrorists are not martyrs; rather, they are going straight to hell. They are not going to enjoy a reward in their afterlife.",
"Secondly, they have to explicitly embrace the same freedoms for everybody else they want for themselves. Look, I know it's politically incorrect to say this, the president says Fort Hood was an issue of workplace violence.",
"We are at war with radical Islam. Our president loves to apologize for America, he goes to the National Prayer Breakfast, brings up the Crusades, criticizes Christians. We're at war today with radical Islamic extremists.",
"It's not politically correct to say that, but the way you strike that balance, you say to Muslim leaders, denounce these fools, these radical terrorists by name, say they are not martyrs.",
"JINDAL: Sure, I don't think a 14-year-old should ever get arrested for bringing a clock to school. So, if you're asking me I'm glad he wasn't -- he was released. I'm glad that police are careful. I'm glad they are worried about security and safety issues.",
"Look, in America we don't tolerate them. The biggest discrimination is going on against Christian business owners and individuals who believe in traditional forms of marriage. They are throwing this woman in jail in Kentucky. [applause]",
"Let's talk about that. Let's talk about the Christian florist, the caterer, the musician, who simply want to say, don't arrest us for having -- or don't discriminate against us, don't shut down our businesses, don't fine us thousands of dollars for believing marriage is between a man and a woman. Lets talk about not discriminating against Christians.",
"JINDAL: Jake -- Jake... [crosstalk]",
"JINDAL: Jake, I've got a practical question.",
"JINDAL: I've got a practical question. I'd like the left to give us a list of jobs that Christians aren't allowed to have. If we're not allowed to be clerks, bakers, musicians, caterers, are we allowed to be pastors [inaudible]?",
"JINDAL: We're not allowed to be elected officials. I firmly -- this is an important point. The First Amendment rights, the right to religious freedom is in the First Amendment of \"The Constitution.\" It isn't breaking the law to exercise our constitutional rights. America did not create religious liberty, religious liberty created the United States of America. It is the reason we're here today. [applause]",
"UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I...",
"JINDAL: I think actually putting Roberts, I think putting Kennedy, I think putting -- before them, I think putting Souter on the bench was a mistake. But look, I think the -- the first responsibility starts in the White House. The reality is conservatives have not been willing to stand up for our beliefs, unlike the liberals -- look, you never worry about where the Democratic judges are going to vote, it's always the conservatives. You've never had a Democratic judge wake up and say, surprise, I've evolved, I've become a conservative.",
"It's always the Republicans, because we have presidents that try to find judges with no records, no rulings, no writings. I'll tell you, I am going to have a litmus test. For judges, I'm going to find judges that are conservative, judges that are going to be pro-life, judges that are going to follow \"The Constitution,\" judges, by the way, that are going to follow the American law, not international law.",
"They're not appointed there to interpret international law, they're there to apply \"The United States Constitution.\" Judges understand, their job is not to write law. If they want to write law, they should run for the Senate or the House.",
"It's time for a Republican president as the next commander in chief, I will do as the Democrats have done. I will appoint bold judges that are actually consistent with my values that will be conservatives and enforce the Senate --",
"JINDAL: Thank you, Jake. But look, it's not a minor ruling. Justice Roberts twice rewrote the law to save ObamaCare, the biggest expansion of government, creating a new entitlement when we can't afford the government we've got today, an expansion of socialism in our country.",
"It's not that he got a minor ruling wrong. This is twice he rewrote the law. Now, look, I have a lot of respect for these senators that have big bladders. They give great speeches in the Senate. And I respect that.",
"I've actually signed the executive order. I've actually signed a law protecting religious liberty in the state of Louisiana.",
"It's not 99-1. The one that he got wrong was a big one. Twice he bent over backwards to save ObamaCare. If the Republicans had voted the way that we should -- they should have, we would still have our 19th Amendment rights and ObamaCare would not be the law of the land.",
"JINDAL: No. And it's not only whether they can win. They shouldn't win this election cycle.",
"One of the things I do agree -- and I want to thank Donald Trump after I've criticized him for everything from being a narcissist to an egomaniac -- one of the things he was right about was to say nonsense to the D.C. establishment. It is time to fire all of them. You've got a choice between honest Socialists on the Left, like Bernie Sanders, and lying conservatives on the Right.",
"We have got the majority; what good has it done us? See, they said they were going to stop amnesty. They said they were going to repeal ObamaCare. They didn't do either. Now they're not even willing to fight to defund Planned Parenthood. They've already -- McConnell has already waved the white flag of defeat.",
"They are not willing to stand up to fight for the issues that count. I think it is time to have term limits. I think it's time to have part-time citizen legislators. Let's pay them a per diem instead of a six-figure salary, stop them from being seven-figure lobbyists. Let's also pay them a per diem for every day they don't go to D.C. Let's keep them out of D.C., working in the real -- [crosstalk] -- let's make them live under the same rules and laws they apply to the rest of us. Not only shouldn't they be elected, they can't be elected. Let's fire all of them from their current positions. [applause]",
"JINDAL: Two things, Jake. One, I'm absolutely for all of these carve-outs and loopholes and special interests for as -- they get lobbyists. They get sweetheart deals you and I and the rest of this audience couldn't get.",
"So as part of an overall comprehensive tax reform that has a lower, flatter tax code, sure. As a single, I am just to raise taxes, no. I don't want to give the government more money.",
"The government has grown over this president where now, it's going to overwhelm the American economy. We've got to cut the size of the government economy.",
"Nobody else running for president has done that. I'm the only candidate. I've cut my state budget 26 percent. Everybody else talks about it, we have done it.",
"So, there's a part of overall tax reform that cuts rates, flattens and lowers the tax code, sure. But I'm not for raising taxes on anybody. We already have too much money going to D.C.",
"JINDAL: Jake, I'd like to answer that question.",
"JINDAL: Well, Jake, I want to answer that question. I want to go back to Iran. I didn't get a chance to answer that as well.",
"Look, on Russia, across the world, dictators walk all over this president. He treats our friends like dirt. He lets our enemies walk all over us.",
"The only group he's able to out-negotiate are the Senate Republicans. They never should've passed this bad Corker bill. Instead of a two-thirds vote to reject -- to approve the Iran deal, now it takes a two-thirds vote to reject the Iran deal.",
"I want to ask Lindsey a question. Will the Senate Republicans -- they still have time -- are they willing to use the nuclear option, meaning get rid of the filibusters, stop Iran from becoming a nuclear power?",
"Now is the time for the Senate Republicans to stand up and fight. We are tired of the establishment saying there's nothing we can do. [applause]",
"All night tonight, we've heard Republicans say things like, \"Well, if the Supreme Court's ruled, there's nothing I can do about religious liberty,\" you know. \"The president did this. There's nothing we can do about it for two more years.\"",
"There is something we can do. We won the Senate. We won the House. What was the point of winning those chambers if we're not going to do anything with them?",
"You're going back tonight. You still have time before the Thursday deadline. Will y'all use the nuclear option to stop Iran from becoming a nuclear power? [applause]",
"JINDAL: Lindsey...",
"JINDAL: Lindsey, well, that's my frustration. [applause]",
"Listen to what you've heard. You -- you basically heard a Senate Republican say, \"We can't defund Planned Parenthood, despite these barbaric videos.\"",
"JINDAL: \"We can't -- we can't...\"",
"JINDAL: \"... we can't get rid of Obamacare\" -- Lindsey, let me answer this question now. I wish the Senate Republicans had half the fight in them the Senate Democrats did.",
"Look, President Obama didn't give up on Obamacare when they lost the Senate election in Massachusetts. I want my side to follow the Constitution. They broke the Constitution, they broke the law, but they forced Obamacare down our throats, even when they didn't have 60 votes.",
"I wish Republicans in D.C. had half the fight of the Senate Democrats to get rid of Obamacare, to defund Planned Parenthood. [applause]",
"If we can't defund Planned Parenthood now, if we can't stand for innocent human life after these barbaric videos, it is time to be done with the Republican Party.",
"We defunded them in Louisiana. Let's defund them in D.C.",
"If we can't win...",
"JINDAL: -- on that issue, there is no point for being cheaper Democrats, no point grabbing a second liberal party. It is time to get rid of the Republican Party, start over with a new one that's at least conservative.",
"Give Harry Reid and Pelosi credit. At least they fight for what they believe in. I want senators and House members in DC to fight for what we believe in, as well. It's time to have Republican...",
"JINDAL: -- with a backbone in DC.",
"JINDAL: Jake, I'm a doer, not a talker. Look, the idea of America is slipping away from us. If you want somebody who is going to manage the slow decline of this country, makes incremental changes, vote for somebody else. If you want to vote for somebody who understands what is at stake -- Planned Parenthood is selling baby parts across this country, and the Senate Republicans have already given up, even without a fight.",
"I am tired of this surrender (ph) caucus, I am angrier at the Republicans in D.C. than I am at the president. The president is a socialist. At least he fights for what we believe in.",
"We don't need to just send any Republican to the White House. We need to sent somebody who understands that it's time to make big changes. It's time to take on the establishment, it's time to take on the D.C. permanent governing class.",
"Every Republican says they will shrink the size of the government. I'm the only one that has done it. Cut our budget 26 percent.",
"If you want somebody that's going to make incremental change, vote for somebody else. It's time to get the idea of America back. At some point, we're going to be held -- we'll be asked, what did you do when the idea of America was slipping away?",
"I'll promise you this. I will give every ounce of blood, energy, sweat I've got to save the idea of America, the greatest country in the history of the world. [applause]"
