"JINDAL: ...Thank you.",
"JINDAL: A couple of things.",
"In Louisiana, we're actually a top 10 state for job growth. As we sit here today, we have more people working in Louisiana than ever before, earning a higher income than ever before. We've had 60 months in a row of consecutive job growth in our state. So the reality is, we have diversified our economy. Yes, I've got an interview plan that says all of the above, that creates good manufacturing jobs in America. We've also got one of the fastest growing IT sectors by percentage. We are growing Louisiana's economy.",
"But let me get to the point that is, I think, the most important issue here tonight. You're going to have several hours of debate on the economy and we're going to have a great discussion about energy plans and tax rates. And that's all great.",
"The most important thing we have to do, we have a fundamental choice to make, folks.",
"Are we willing to cut the government economy so we can grow the American economy?",
"That is the most fundamental question we've got to answer.",
"We are on the path to socialism right now. [applause]",
"These are mutually exclusive. The hour is late, but it is not too late for America.",
"Though under President Obama, you asked about his economy. We've got record dependents, a record number of Americans on food stamps, record low participation rate in the work force.",
"This is a fundamental choice. Sending a big government Republican to DC is not enough to fix this problem. It's not enough just to beat Hillary Clinton. We've got to change the direction of our country.",
"What that means is let's shrink the government, not slow its growth rate, but actually shrink the government so we can grow the American economy. That is the fundamental issue we should be debating here tonight.",
"JINDAL: No, I think right now there's not much difference between the two parties. The reason we keep losing nationally is we try to be cheaper versions of the Democratic party. What if the Republicans, what if Republicans actually embraced our own principles? So I earlier said if you want bigger paychecks, you want more jobs, you want less government dependence, you're going to have to cut government spending. Here's the dirty little secret.",
"You're going to hear a lot of Republicans tonight in this debate and the next one talk about cutting government spending. It's going to sound great. There's only one of us that's actually cut government spending. Not two, there's one, and you're looking at him. We've got four senators running. They've never cut anything in D.C. They give these long speeches called filibusters, they pat themselves on the back, nothing changes. When they go to relieve themselves their cause and the toilet get flushed at the same time, and the American people lose. We've got a bunch of governors running, we've got seven current former governors running. I'm the only one that has cut government spending. Everybody else can talk about it. If they haven't done it in their state capitals, what makes them thank that — what makes us think they'll do it if we send them to D.C. Look, when politicians talk, we need to look at what they have done, not what they have said. Otherwise, it's a bunch of hot air. We've cut our budget 26 percent. Record number of Louisianans working.",
"If Republicans want to win national elections, let's be conservatives, let's be Republicans, let's not be a second version of the liberal party, let's cut government spending and grow the American economy.",
"JINDAL: Wait, wait, wait. I want to respond. He has criticized something I said. I want to respond to that. Mike, with all due respect, I admire your social views, I share many of those views, your record as Governor tells a different story. Was — your time as Governor spending in Arkansas went up 65 percent, number of state workers went up 20 percent, the taxes for the average citizen went up 47 percent. That's not a record of cutting. I'm saying we've actually cut. We reduced the size of our budget. So wanting to cut is one thing, actually cutting is a different thing. Facts don't lie.",
"JINDAL: I was absolutely a skeptic of giving this president more power. He negotiated a bad deal with Iran. He breaks the law routinely. I don't know why Congress would want to concede more authority to him.",
"Look, this trade deal is 6,000 pages long. Unlike ObamaCare, I think we should read it before we decide whether we would vote for it or not vote for it. [applause]",
"I am for trade deals, but I want to make sure they are fair trade deals.",
"I want to come back to something that Chris had said earlier. Look, I absolutely agree we've got to beat Hillary Clinton. But just sending any Republican is not good enough. We've had a Republican majority in the Senate and the House.",
"What has changed?",
"If we send another big government Republican to the White House, we will not do enough to fix what is wrong in this country.",
"Chris, I think records matter. I think the way we govern matter.",
"Under your leadership in New Jersey, your budget has gone up 15 percent. It's gone down 26 percent in Louisiana.",
"It has gone up $5 million in New Jersey. It's gone down $9 billion in Louisiana. In New Jersey, you've had nine credit downgrades, setting a record. We've had eight credit upgrades in Louisiana.",
"My point is this. If politicians say they're going to be conservative, they say they're going to cut spending but they don't do it, why should we send them to DC?",
"It gets harder, not easier, when we send them to DC. Let's not be a second liberal party. Let's actually cut government spending. Let's grow the American economy. Let's not just beat Hillary, let's elect a conservative to the White House, not just any Republican.",
"JINDAL: But wait a minute, records matter. [applause]",
"Records — records matter. Yes, we've got to...",
"JINDAL: — beat Hillary Clinton. But Chris, it's also true that you expanded food stamps at a time that we've got record numbers of Americans on food stamps. It's also true you caved into ObamaCare. You expanded Medicaid.",
"We've got a choice in front of us. This is an important debate. This is not about comparing Louisiana to New Jersey or Bobby to Chris. This is an important debate for the American people.",
"This is supposed to be an economics debate. Let's have a debate.",
"Do we want to grow government or do we want to grow the American economy?",
"Do we want to grow dependence on government, or do we want to grow good paying jobs in the private sector...",
"JINDAL: ...you don't grow the economy by putting more people on food stamps, more people in Medicaid, you grow the economy by cutting government, cutting spending. That's what we've done in Louisiana, you haven't done that in New Jersey...",
"JINDAL: ...We need a conservative, not a big government republican in D.C.",
"JINDAL: ...This is how we....",
"JINDAL: ...This is how we move our country forward, look, this is not about between me and Chris...",
"JINDAL: ...This is about...[crosstalk]...are we going to be the party...",
"JINDAL: Well, look, only one other opponent, actually, one other candidate, actually, has a plan. That's Jeb Bush, and he creates a new entitlement program. My plan actually gets rid of all of Obamacare, it's great that Senator Cruz will shut down the government over Obamacare, but he still hasn't given us his plan to get rid of it. It's great that other republicans talk about getting rid of it.",
"You go to a town hall in Iowa, or New Hampshire, ask them how they're actually going to get rid of it — my plan has been online for over a year. It gets rid of all of Obamacare, it reduces the cost. It actually puts Americans, their patients, their doctors back in control. And, it actually helps those that really need this help — but, this is one of the most critical issues we face domestically.",
"I think I — look, right now, I think I am the only candidate running that refused to expand Medicaid. I'm the only one that turned down — that did what we could to fight Obamacare. This is an important point, and, look, I appreciate Chris's nice compliments to me. And, Chris, you look to me very well, I love Mary-pat, but this isn't about me and Chris. This is about the country, and this is about what direction — this is the most important election in our lifetimes.",
"Folks, a couple of years ago they told us give them the republican majorities in the House and the Senate, they'd stop Obamacare, and amnesty, and the bad Iran deal — nothing changed. If they fooled us once, shame on them. If they fooled us twice, shame on us. Don't let them fool us again.",
"Chris, look, I'll give you your ribbon for participation, and a juicebox, but in the real world, it's about results...[audience reaction]...but, in the real world it's about results. It's about actually cutting government spending, not just talking about cutting government spending.",
"JINDAL: We can waste our time. And I think this is why people were so frustrated with the last debate with these kinds of silly questions. [applause]",
"We've only got a certain amount of time to talk about the economy. Let me use my time to say this. I want to fire everybody in D.C. in both parties. I think they all — we need term limits, get rid of them all, make them live under the same rules they passed on the rest of us. [cheering and applause]",
"JINDAL: So under our tax plan, look, the top rate is 25 percent, 10 percent, 2 percent. That 2 percent is the most important.",
"I think everybody should pay something. I think everybody should have skin in the game.",
"We shouldn't be creating one group of Americans that's dependent on government, another group that's paying taxes.",
"I want to come back to an earlier point though, that Chris said. Look, we all agree Hillary Clinton is bad. We all agree we need to beat her. But let's not pretend that out-of-control government spending is only a Democratic issue. This is a bipartisan issue, and just sending another big government Republican to D.C. is not good enough.",
"We need to actually cut government spending. We need to cut — and we're not going to do it just by sending any Republican. I'm glad he's vetoed taxes. The Tax Foundation graded New Jersey the 50th worst business climate due to taxes, high taxes in the state of New Jersey.",
"JINDAL: Well, a couple of reasons. Look, we know big companies don't pay those taxes today. They hire lobbyists and accountants and lawyers. It's the small businesses that get hit.",
"I want to get rid of the corporate tax, I want to bring the jobs and investment back to America. Make the CEOs pay the same rates as everybody else. Get rid of all the corporate welfare as well.",
"Like I said, make everybody pay something, earned success is so much better than unearned success. And let's actually shrink the size of government. My plan purposely does that.",
"Look, we can talk all night about tax plans, energy plans, I think you will find a lot of agreement among all the Republicans. We all want to get rid of the death tax, the marriage penalty. We all want lower, fewer brackets. We want to downsize, take away power from the IRS.",
"What we really need to be talking about is this, these last seven years, we've had more government spending, more government dependence. Poverty has gone up. Inequality has gone up. Only the top 10 percent have seen their incomes go up — their median incomes go up.",
"We actually have more inequality thanks to what we have seen, the largest most expensive experiment in progressive government. We can't keep spending money we don't have.",
"And the reality is, the last couple of years it hasn't mattered whether Republicans or Democrats were in control. We keep stealing from our children. That is immoral. It is wrong. And we're creating more government dependence.",
"If we really want to grow the economy, yes, you need a rational energy plan, and you've got to rein in the EPA, and you've got to repeal Obamacare, and you've got to cut taxes.",
"But none of that will be enough if we're not serious about cutting government spending. We cannot afford to elect a big- government Republican. We need somebody. This is the most important election. Hillary Clinton is gift-wrapping this election to us. Let's not waste this opportunity to apply conservative principles and cut the size of government. [applause]",
"JINDAL: Well, a couple things, first, I want to echo what others have said and thank those veterans that run towards danger, not away from it, so we can live in the greatest country in the history of the world.",
"I think every veteran should get that card, and they should be allowed to get that health care wherever they want in the private sector. But, I also think — or the public sector, I also think we need to fire some of the V.A. bureaucrats. Somebody should go to jail over these scandals, and it is a crime that it has not happened. [applause]",
"When it comes — when it comes to uniting the American people, one of the things we've done to honor our veterans in Louisiana, we've given thousands — and I've hand delivered these, to veterans — medals to veterans to thank them for their service. I'll just give you one quick example, I know my time is out, but, we've had Vietnam war veterans with tears in their eyes saying nobody has ever thanked them before. We've had World War II veterans, children, who said they never heard the stories of their parents heroic sacrifice. Whatever conflict, whenever they served, one of the things we can do is to teach our children we do live in the greatest country in the history of the world.",
"We got a president who doesn't believe in American exceptionalism, but we still do, and it's because of those men and women in uniform. We should thank them everyday, not just veterans day. [applause]",
"JINDAL: You know, I have spent a lot of time tonight talking about the need to cut the size of government. The reason I'm doing that — it's not just about balancing the budget, or balancing a bunch of numbers. Because I believe in the American dream. I think President Obama's done a lot of damage to our country. I think that one of the worst things he has done is try to change the idea of America to be one of dependence. There are a lot of politicians that talk about cutting government spending, I'm the only one that's actually done it that's running for President.",
"The rest of them, it's a lot of hot air. If you want your paychecks to go up, if you want more good paying jobs, if you want the government out of your lives, we've got to cut the size of government. It's not enough just to elect any republican, we've seen that. We've got to elect a republican that will take on the establishment in both parties. I'm asking for your support.",
"Thank you. [applause]"
