"KUCINICH: Just as five years ago I warned that there was no evidence that would merit war against Iraq and warned this country not to do it, so for the past few years I've been saying that there's no evidence that Iran had a nuclear weapons program.",
"And unfortunately, the president, just as he was able to convince some of my colleagues here to vote for the war against Iraq, despite the fact there wasn't any real evidence, so he has been able to get some of my colleagues here -- Senators Clinton, Obama and Edwards -- to say of Iran: All options are on the table.",
"KUCINICH: As a matter of fact, he's still saying that.",
"So we really need to switch to not just diplomacy, but my candidacy offers the American people someone for president who was right the first time.",
"In view of this latest intelligence estimate which says Iran's nuclear program was stopped in 2003, do you believe that's still true?",
"KUCINICH: Not everyone.",
"(CROSSTALK)",
"KUCINICH: Let me characterize my own remarks.",
"KUCINICH: All I did was raised my hand. I wanted a chance to respond. Thank you.",
"KUCINICH: The point that Senator Clinton made was a valid point, with respect to the comments of Senator Obama and also the comments of Senator Edwards at the Herzliya conference.",
"See, when people say all options are on the table, as the three senators have, they actually encouraged President Bush and licensed his rhetoric.",
"And what I'm saying is that I'm the only one here who in Congress repeatedly challenged -- in every chance, in every legislation repeatedly challenged this mindset that said all options are on the table and that Iran had nuclear weapons programs.",
"KUCINICH: And I'm the only one here who can make that claim.",
"Senator Chris Dodd, are all options on the table, or should they be on the table?",
"KUCINICH: Thank you.",
"To answer your question directly, we need to reach out to Muslim nations and to tell them America is taking a different direction.",
"KUCINICH: No more unilateralism, preemption, first strike. We're going to -- our policy will be strength through peace. As the one up here who not only voted against, but voted 100 percent of the time against funding the war in Iraq, the war in Iraq was used to create a wedge between the United States and Islam.",
"The build-up to an attack on Iran was really a danger to Israel, because everyone knows that Israel would have paid the price for the United States wrongheaded policy. That's not being discussed in any of the analysis yet, but I'm here to say it.",
"We need to protect and provide for the security of Israel, and to make sure that the Palestinians can have a state. And it has to be done under circumstances where the security of all parties and the civil rights and human rights of all parties are protected.",
"QUESTION: American diplomatic history books recount the Monroe Doctrine, the Truman Doctrine and will likely discuss the Bush doctrine. When future historians write of your administration's foreign policy pursuits, what will be noted as your doctrine and the vision you cast for U.S. diplomatic relations?",
"Senator Clinton, what do you think the Clinton doctrine will be?",
"KUCINICH: Yes. I maybe the only one up here who actually voted against China trade because of the concerns I had that the U.S. was not going to be able to maintain its manufacturing base, which is central to maintaining a middle class.",
"What we've seen is that without solid trade policies, we're undermined.",
"Without a strength-through-peace doctrine of rejecting war as an instrument of policy, we're going to keep borrowing money from China. Let us not forget we're borrowing money from China to finance the war in Iraq.",
"And in addition to that, the speculation on Wall Street has weakened our economy.",
"We need a policy of constructive engagement with China, stop the arms race with them, work to make sure we have a global climate change treaty with China, get them to transition out of nuclear and coal and oil.",
"KUCINICH: I'm talking about a whole new direction that's based on a doctrine of strength through peace. And I have a voting record up here to back it up, unlike some of my esteemed colleagues.",
"KUCINICH: Either buy America or bye-bye America. We have to recognize that. And a Kucinich administration will rebuild American industry.",
"And while I'm listening to this debate right here, I'm the only one up here who voted against China trade. My good friend John Edwards who is a friend of mine, you know, he voted for it and is now decrying what's come over.",
"I'm saying that it is critical that we rebuild America's industry, that we not get in an arms race with China, that we have new trade laws, based on workers' rights, human rights, environmental quality, that we take a new direction with respect to environmental policy, getting China away from nuclear, coal and oil.",
"I mean, we should be able to have solid relations with China, but we've got to get our own house in order, stop the speculation on Wall Street, and stop Wall Street from moving our jobs out of this country.",
"And that's what the China trade vote was all about.",
"KUCINICH: Rely on the Constitution.",
"You know, we don't -- we don't encourage vigilantism in this country. We have a Constitution. We have due process. We have equal protection. We have habeas corpus.",
"This administration would like to shred the Constitution and deny people all those rights. But when we get into that, what we do, we take the path of denying constitutional rights, and we're back to Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo and all those other violations of rights that we're ashamed of now.",
"And I'm saying that we have to realize that these are economic refugees from NAFTA. You know, I've said it over and over -- cancel NAFTA, negotiate a new trade agreement with Mexico based on worker's rights, human rights, environmental quality principles.",
"Give a path to legalization for the people who have been here. You can't send them home willy-nilly. You have to have a way in which our immigration policy resonates with the deeper principles of inclusiveness in America, as symbolized by our Statute of Liberty.",
"I want to play a bit of tape, though, of Amy Vybiral. She's at the Marshalltown Education and Training Center, so she's somebody who deals with this in real time. And here's the policy that she follows as an English as a second language institution, teaching immigrants.",
"(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)",
"QUESTION: I don't know their status. And I don't -- we don't ask.",
"Let me put it this way, we ask a Social Security number of everybody who enters. And we require it of no one. So it's not a prerequisite to attend the college. (END AUDIO CLIP)",
"KUCINICH: Absolutely. I mean, you know, we have to recognize that many of them have continued to work in providing services. We have to get them a path to legalization.",
"But you raised the question -- the question is: Are they driving wages down? The passage of NAFTA helped drive wages down. Wall Street speculation, ending in closing plants, have driven wages down. Non-productive military spending drives wages down.",
"What your panel here is conjuring is taking -- is the same approach that the Bush administration has sued in denying any kind of rights at all to so-called enemy non-combatants.",
"And I say that a Kucinich administration, everyone who's in this country or within the reach of this country, has to be accorded constitutional rights that would be accorded to anyone else, because that's what we stand on.",
"This is one of the reasons why I am pursuing impeachment against the vice president, because he's trashed the Constitution.",
"KUCINICH: I was able to defeat an English only proposal in the Ohio Senate years ago when I pointed out our state's founding documents were in German.",
"We need to have our children learn languages. I mean, what does this serve the other? Why are we separating ourselves from the possibility of being able to merge with the world. An insular and isolated America, doesn't cut it. And so, what I'm talking about is rebuild our economy, do it confidently, and encourage the American people to work -- to reach out.",
"My political philosophy -- I see the world as one. I see the world as being interconnected and interdependent and there being an imperative for human unity.",
"And so we need to reach out and education is the way to do it. Let's have our children learn languages and let's grow our economy in a confident way: full employment economy, jobs for all, health care for all, not-for-profit health care for all.",
"Senator Gravel?",
"(CROSSTALK)",
"KUCINICH: I wrestle with the question as to whether or not the president and the vice president should be held liable for crimes for taking us unto a war based on lies.",
"I mean, I'm ready to be president. I've been right all along on Iraq, on Iran, on not-for-profit health care, on giving our children a chance for an education from age three, all the way through...",
"KUCINICH: Listen. I'm ready to be president. I am president. And the standards -- I'm the only one here who has said that both President Bush and Vice President Cheney ought to be impeached for lying to the American people, not only to take us into war against Iraq, but now, this new development, with the national intelligence estimate.",
"Tell us what our standards should be for the Oval Office. Tell us what standards -- I'm asking my colleagues here -- that you would expect to be obtained by anybody who would be president.",
"Can you lie about a war? Is that OK?",
"And I want to come back to you, Senator Clinton. You said there were a host of things that you don't know the answers to. Would you like to name one, since your fellow candidates did, in general, name something in particular?"
