"KUCINICH: As the only one on this stage who actually voted against the war and voted 100 percent of the time against funding the war, I have a rather unique perspective. I've introduced legislation, H.R. 1234, which is the plan to end the Iraq War. To me, it is fairly astonishing to have Democrats, who took back the power of the House and the Senate in 2006, to stand on this stage and tell the American people that this war will continue to 2013 and perhaps past that.",
"I want everyone to know. I want the American people to know that I've been on this from the beginning, and I know that we can get out of there three months after I take office, or after the new president takes office, if one is determined to do that. And I want to make it clear that the plan includes enemy occupation, closing the bases, bringing the troops home, setting in motion a program of reconciliation, not partition, between the Iraqs -- between the Sunnis, the Shi'ites and the Kurds, having an honest reconstruction program, having a program of reparations, and giving the people of Iraq full control over their oil, which currently most of the people on this stage have said should be privatized in one way, shape or form.",
"And so I believe that if we're really going to have peace, no partition, let them -- let them unite. We remember what Lincoln said years ago. It's true for Iraq, as well. A house divided against itself cannot stand. If we divide Iraq, essentially we're going to be setting the stage for more war. And I stand for strength through peace -- a whole new approach.",
"KUCINICH: By -- by April of 2007, and you can mark that on your calendars if you want, to take a new direction.",
"KUCINICH: Well, make that -- make that 2009. I'm ready to be president today. (Laughter.)",
"KUCINICH: You're splitting Iraq up. That's what it does.",
"KUCINICH: I would like to say that we're forgetting who we are as Americans, Tim. You have to remember the message of the Statue of Liberty. That is who America is. \"Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses.\"",
"We're forgetting that. We should be talking about cancelling NAFTA and WTO, giving workers' rights a premium in negotiations with Mexico. It's a new direction.",
"KUCINICH: Absolutely, I -- you know what? The federal law -- there's a moral law here.",
"KUCINICH: And the moral law says that the immigrants are being used and mistreated.",
"KUCINICH: You know, Tim, that was NBC's story. Now I want the people to know what the real story was.",
"I took a stand on behalf of the people of Cleveland to save a municipal electric system. The banks and the utilities in Cleveland, the private utilities, were trying to force me to sell that system. And so on December 15th, 1978, I told the head of the biggest bank, when he told me I had to sell the system in order to get the city's credit renewed, that I wasn't going to do it because -- you know, I remember where I came from.",
"I remembered my parents counting pennies to pay the utility bills in one of the many apartments we lived in, and so I know why I went into public office. I went in to stand up for the people. And the people in Cleveland in 1994 asked me to come back to public life because at that point they expanded a municipal electric system that the banks demanded that I sell, and I showed the ability to stand up for the people.",
"You know, my campaign in '94 was \"because it was right,\" and people put me in the Ohio Senate for that reason; '96 it was \"light up Congress\" as a symbol of saving the municipal electric system; and this year it's going to be \"light up America\" because I'm going to challenge those interest groups. I put my job on the line. How many people would be willing to put their job on the line in the face of pressure from banks and utilities? As this story gets told, people will want me to be their next president because they'll see in me not only the ability to take a stand, but the ability to live with integrity.",
"Thank you.",
"KUCINICH: I think --",
"KUCINICH: You know, of course we ought to be raising the cap in order to protect Social Security, which is solid through about 2040 without any changes whatsoever. But what everyone should realize in this country is that Wall Street is very interested in privatization. And unless we have a president who states very clearly no privatization, believes in economic growth -- and I'm talking about a new WPA, a Works Green Administration, creating technologies for a green America -- we have to believe in economic growth. We should raise the ceiling.",
"And in addition to that, Tim, we should be thinking about lowering -- lowering -- the retirement age to 65. People's bodies break down. There are people who are retiring early; they don't have the kind of economic help they should get. We should be thinking raise the cap, lower the retirement age to 65, stop privatization, increased economic growth.",
"That's what a Kucinich presidency will mean.",
"KUCINICH: Wait a minute. I've been breathing in a lot of secondhand smoke here tonight. (Cheers.) You bet I'll go for a national law. (Continued cheers, applause.)",
"KUCINICH: You know, I think that not only about service, but we have to have confidence in young Americans. And a president who reaches out to them and talks to them about drinking responsibly is much better than a president who tells them, \"Thou shalt not,\" because young people will do what they do, but they're looking for leadership from a president. I'm ready to provide that leadership.",
"Of course they should be able to drink at age 18, and they should be able to vote at age 16.",
"KUCINICH: No. And he said something else that didn't receive much notice. He said that the Iraq war was about oil -- something that I said on \"Meet the Press,\" Tim, on February 23rd, 2003. I think that we need to make sure that the next president was right about Iraq, was right about the Patriot Act. You can have a president like that -- that was right about Iraq, who voted against it from the beginning, and against the funding. You can have a president who voted against -- who is for a single payer not-for-profit health care system, one who will stop the Patriot Act --",
"KUCINICH: -- or you can have a president who's tall. (Laughter, applause.)",
"KUCINICH: Well, first of all, you know, I know a little bit about this because I actually blocked a nuclear dump in Ohio. And I was one of the few up here who actually spoke against having a nuclear dump in Nevada.",
"The truth of the matter is that nuclear power is very expensive, Tim.",
"KUCINICH: They never factored in the cost of storage, which continues forever. I want to keep utility rates low by having a Works Green Administration, emphasis on solar and wind, drive down this energy curve of hydrocarbon consumption. And, finally, no more war as an instrument of policy. No more resource wars. We've got to make the transition away from oil, and that's what a Kucinich administration would do.",
"KUCINICH: Thirty seconds -- you're on my time.",
"The metaphor that we're using here is one that relates to, really, 9/11 and the terror that followed, and the politicization of fear which occurred in this society.",
"A Kucinich administration will be about strength through peace. No unilateralism, no preemption, no first-strike, using -- and a rejection of war as an instrument of policy.",
"So of course you'd use a pardon, but we have to remember, this Constitution has to be redeemed and this administration has took us down a -- really, a (inaudible).",
"I will not only restore the Constitution, but I want a new national security doctrine, strength through peace, that will make us safer, because the neo kind approach has made America less safe and more vulnerable.",
"KUCINICH: I carry that with me at every debate, this prayer from St. Francis, which says, Lord, make me an instrument of your peace, and I believe very strongly that all of us can be instruments of peace. And that's what I try to bring to public life.",
"KUCINICH: You know, I've got to take exception to this. Cleveland Indians won the central division, 92 victories -- they're going to the World Series.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"Hi, mom.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
