"MCCAIN:: I think the respect and commitment to the rights of the unborn is something I've fought for, and it has a lot to do with national security. Because it depends on—it says very much what kind of a country we are and our respect for human life, whether it be here in the United States or whether it be in China or Bangladesh or the Congo or anyplace else in the world. So I think it is connected. But I also firmly believe that the challenge of the 21st century is the struggle against radical Islamic extremism. It is a transcendent issue. It is hydra-headed. It will be with us for the rest of the century.",
"I have served my nation and my country and the people of this country for all of my adult life. I am the most prepared. I have been involved in these issues. I have served this nation in the military and in the Congress, and I'm the best prepared and equipped and need no on-the-job training to meet that challenge.",
"MCCAIN:: Of course. They are making progress, and we are winning on the ground. And there are political solutions being arrived at all over Iraq today, not at the national level.",
"I'm disappointed, of course, that the Maliki government has not done what they need to do. But I'll tell you, it's not only in the national interest of the Iraqis, it's an American national interest. We are winning.",
"We must win. If we lose, there'll be catastrophic consequences and genocide, and we will be back. This is a seminal moment in American history. We must succeed.",
"There will be a big debate coming up in September on the floor of the Senate. We will win that debate because the American people understand the consequences of failure.",
"MCCAIN:: Morale is good. Morale is good amongst our military. I can tell you that.",
"A three-state solution—we just saw it when the Iraqi people joined together with Iraqi flags celebrating a victory in a soccer match.",
"We are winning. We must win. And we will not set a date for surrender, as the Democrats want us to do.v",
"MCCAIN: Have you forgotten about 9/11?",
"MCCAIN: Have you forgotten about...",
"MCCAIN:: Let me just say, George, all of us feel frustration, sometimes anger and sorrow over what's happened in this war.",
"MCCAIN:: It was very badly mismanaged for nearly the first four years. I was one of the greatest critics. We do now have a strategy that is succeeding. We do have a military whose morale is up because they see this success. This has consequences far beyond Iraq, throughout the entire region. Look at the behavior of the Iranians, the Syria, the uneasiness of our so-called allies of the region. This is an historic moment in history. And I'm going to be judged by history, not by public opinion polls. And I believe that we can and must prevail, and we've got the strategy and the general that can do it. Give us some time for it to succeed.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"MCCAIN:: We fail to appreciate that elections do not mean democracy, that it is rule of law. And rule of law, by the way, is beginning to take hold in Iraq, just as peaceful and more secure—more secure, not totally secure— neighborhoods in Baghdad and in Anbar and in other parts, in the Kurdish areas, is beginning to take place, which will then allow true democracy to take place. It's naive to say that we will never use nuclear weapons. It's naive to say we're going to attack Pakistan without thinking it through. What if Musharraf were removed from power? What if a radical Islamic government were to take place because we triggered it with an attack? But the fundamental—by the way, you quoted President Bush. President Kennedy also said at his inauguration that would go anywhere and bear any burden. I believe the reason why we won the Cold War and the reason why we are still a shining city on a hill is because of our advocacy and our dedication to the principles that all of us are created equal and endowed by our creator with certain inalienable rights.",
"MCCAIN:: That's all of us, no matter where we live in the world, no matter what our faith or our beliefs are. And I will continue to advocate for freedom and democracy and rights for all human beings.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"MCCAIN:: We passed a $50 billion transportation bill that had $2 billion in pork barrel earmarked projects: $233 million for a bridge to nowhere in Alaska, to an island with 50 people on it. Not one dime in those pork barrel projects was for inspection or repair of bridges.",
"MCCAIN:: They were for pork barrel projects. I'll veto every single bill that comes across my desk and make the authors of those pork barrel projects...",
"MCCAIN:: Having been considered for that post several times, I've thought a lot about that.",
"(LAUGHTER) The vice president really only has two duties. One is to cast a tie-breaking vote in the case of a tied vote in the Senate. And the other is to inquire daily as to the health of the president.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"(APPLAUSE) I really would do what some presidents have done in the past. A vice president brings a certain area of expertise and talent. I would probably assign some of those areas, like telecommunications or some other important issues. But...",
"MCCAIN:: Look, I would be very careful that everybody understood that there's only one president.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"MCCAIN:: I believe that we've got to simplify the tax code. But one of the first areas we've got to go after is the alternate minimum tax, which is going to eat in to 20 million American families if we don't eliminate it, and very quickly. Look, when we found out that Congress could not close a single military base when we had a huge number of them, we appointed—we passed a law where we appointed a commission and they said we would close so many based and Congress votes up or no—up or down. I would find Alan Greenspan. I'd say, \"Give us your recommendations.\" We'll pass a law. And we will vote on Alan Greenspan and his commission's recommendations, yes or no, up or down. That's the way you're going to simplify the tax code, which now requires $140 billion of American families' income to prepare their tax returns.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"MCCAIN:: You want my list? It's right here.",
"(LAUGHTER) I would imagine that in 1967, in the USS Forrestal, where we'd just had a horrendous fire and the ship was headed back to the United States, and a guy came onboard and said, \"We need people to go over to another aircraft carrier and stay in combat,\" that was a very defining moment.",
"MCCAIN:: I thought about that a lot in the intervening five and a half years in prison. The other mistake was when I went to a meeting among some regulators concerning a guy who was a supporter of mine. It was a mistake and one I never should have made.",
"MCCAIN:: I love my country. I've had the great honor for more than 50 years of serving it in the military, in Congress, the United States Senate. And I am fully prepared—fully prepared, more than anyone else running on either side—to fight the transcendent challenge of this nation, which will be for all of the 21st century. And that is the struggle against radical Islamic extremism.",
"MCCAIN:: We must win. We will win. And we will never surrender; they will.",
"(APPLAUSE)"
