"Forbes: Good evening.",
"Forbes: Well, I think in the case of India and Pakistan — both of which are now nuclear powers — it's essential to go beyond their stop-go approach with the Clinton-Gore administration. They had no clue that those tests were going to take place. They had no clue that Pakistan would try to heat up the conflict in Kashmir, which is the real flash point in the sub-continent.",
"And so, when you have a clueless administration, it's no surprise they're always caught short. They're always surprised. So putting on the economic sanctions did not work. India is going ahead with their nuclear program. So we need far more effective diplomacy. Our people did not know, in the White House, that apparently Pakistani operatives were behind that recent hijacking. And so what we have to do is have real diplomacy there, and try to diffuse those tensions.",
"But also, too, we have to rebuild our own military. And we must move ahead with energy, and a sense of emergency with our own missile defense system, to tell these states that aspire to be nuclear powers, forget it. As soon as your rocket leaves the launch pad, we're going to knock it down, or our allies are going to be able to knock it down. Have those defensive measures, and you reduce the likelihood of a nuclear war with India and Pakistan, and elsewhere.",
"Forbes: I would advocate having a real diplomacy with India, and find out what their true intentions are. And then, yes, then, we can look at those sanctions, if it looks like that they want to have a real settlement on the continent, subcontinent. After all, they've had over three wars. And they nearly went to war this summer when Pakistan started to heat things up in Kashmir.",
"And so, those flash points have to be dealt with. This administration has taken a passive approach. They probably had to look on the map where India and Pakistan were.",
"So clearly, it has not worked there. And I think in the case of Pakistan, they did nothing when the Chinese transferred nuclear technology to Pakistan, which helped heat things up. This administration winked an eye. That's why India set off its bomb.",
"Forbes: Quotas are wrong. What makes America unique is judging us as individuals, not as members of groups.",
"My grandfather was a penniless immigrant, as tens of millions of other Americans were. What brings us together is not a single ancestry or religion or a common race. What unites us is a shared set of ideas and ideals: the belief in freedom and liberty, democracy, individual equality before the law, opportunity. That's what makes us unique, and that's what we need to get back to.",
"Forbes: I'll ask it of Governor Bush.",
"Forbes: I'm sure.",
"When you ran for governor in 1994, you criticized Anne Richards for the fact that Texas had 13,000 more state employees than did New York state. Since then, the gap is now 36,000. Texas has 36,000 more employees than the state of New York does at state-level. Under your leadership spending has gone up 36 percent — almost twice the rate of the Clinton-Gore administration.",
"On your so-called tax cuts, your own budget director said that six out of 10 Texans did not get a tax cut in this last round. And on education, you've dumbed down the standards to the point where in Texas, your SAT ranking has gone from 40th in the nation to 46th in the nation. What can you tell the people of New Hampshire, and of America, that you won't do in Washington what you've done in Texas?",
"Forbes: Well, George, on, again, on SATs, Texas is one of the few states where minority scores have gone down, not up. Standards have been dumbed down. Eight-grade science tests in Texas shows four — picture of four insects and says pick out the fly.",
"So, that's why the test scores have been not going up. Now again, how are you going to improve education nationally when in Texas it's gone down?",
"And in terms of tax cuts, yours is a tax cut that only Clinton and Gore could love when most people don't get it.",
"Forbes: Your own budget director said six out of 10 didn't get it.",
"Forbes: What are the real facts on SAT's?",
"Forbes: Well, answer the question.",
"Forbes: Your ranking went down.",
"Forbes: Oh, come on Gary...",
"Forbes: ... I've laid out a policy on China.",
"Forbes: You should listen to it. Gary, I'll give you — I'll give you a copy of my book and you can find it.",
"Forbes: No one has ev      "McCain: It's neither the intention nor the implication of the ad. The ad states clearly what I believe, and that is that I am fully qualified, I am the best prepared to lead this nation in the next century in very dangerous times.",
"Unfortunately, this administration has conducted a feckless, photo-op foreign policy for which we may have to pay a very heavy price in the future in American blood and treasure.",
"I have a coherent, cohesive concept of what I want the world to look like and what the interests and the values are and where the threats lie.",
"I understand the problems of the men and women in the military. I think it's an absolute disgrace that there's 15,000 — 12,000 proud, brave, young enlisted families that are on food stamps in the military. There will be no food stamp military when I am president of the United States.",
"I am simply stating and will repeat: I am fully prepared to be president of the United States.",
"McCain: No, it's not a handicap; it's not at all. But this is the first administration with the president of the United States and the secretary of defense and the secretary of state that have never spent on minute wearing the uniform of the armed services of the United States, and I promise you that won't happen on my watch.",
"McCain: I would think so, because then we could eliminate quotas which I think neither helps the beneficiary nor improves the effort to improve equality in America.",
"But I also think that it's very important that we preserve our rich heritage. In my state, Hispanic heritage has made us wonderful and great and noble. And I want to preserve that. I also want to underscore the fact that we still have a lot of people down at the economic — bottom rung of the economic ladder that need a lot of help and a lot of assistance no matter what their ethnic makeup is. And we have to address this issue.",
"McCain: I think — I think we've pretty well massaged that.",
"Keyes: I heard today that you had been asked a question about what you would say if your daughter was ever in a position where she might need an abortion, and you said that at first that it, as I understand it, that the choice would be up to her and then that you'd have a family conference.",
"I've got to admit I think that that displayed a profound lack of understanding of the basic issue of principle involved in abortion. After all, if your daughter came to you and said she was contemplating killing her grandmother for the inheritance, you wouldn't say let's have a family conference. You would look at her and just say no, because that is morally wrong.",
"Well, it is God's choice that that child is in the womb. And for us to usurp that choice in contradiction of our Declaration principles is just as wrong.",
"Therefore, how can you take the position that you would subject such a choice to a family conference or any other human choice? Isn't it God's choice that protects the life of that child in the womb?",
"McCain: I'm proud of my pro-life record in public life. I'm the only one here who has gone to the floor of the Senate and voted in the preservation of the life of the unborn. I have worked very had for the ban of partial birth abortion. I have sought for approval and legislation requiring parental consent and parental notification.",
"I am proud of that pro-life record and I will continue to maintain it. I will not draw my children into this discussion.",
"Keyes: But meaning no offense, Senator, the question isn't about your record. It was about your understanding. If we take a position on this issue and are then nominated by this party, we will have to go forward to defend that position in a field where Bill Bradley and Al Gore aren't going to take your record as an answer. They will need a persuasive justification before the American people as to why that position is consonant with our principles and our heritage.",
"And the answer you gave today does not display that kind of understanding. How can we trust you to move forward and defend our position on this issue?",
"McCain: Because unlike you, I have a 17-year voting record and record of service to this country, including doing everything that I can to preserve the rights of the unborn.",
"I have spoken as eloquently as I can on that issue. I am proud of my record. And that record, I will stand on.",
"And I am completely comfortable of the fact that as the leader of a pro-life party, with a pro-life position, that I will persuade — which is what really this is all about — to have young Americans understand the importance of the preservation of the rights of the unborn.",
"McCain: Gary...",
"McCain: The United States Supreme Court issued a decision day before yesterday concerning campaign finance reform. It was a marvelous decision. It affirmed everything that I have fought for, including the fact, in the words of one judge, money is property, not free speech.",
"We know the corruption that has taken place in the Clinton and Gore campaign as a result of the 1996 election and the unlimited campaign contributions. We know how important it is now to have an opportunity to enact real, meaningful campaign finance reform. I'd like your views on that very important Supreme Court decision.",
"McCain: The Supreme Court said there is little reason to doubt that sometimes large contributions will work actual corruption of our political system and no reason to question the existence of a corresponding suspicion among voters.",
"Do you know that the Republican Party is now taking — setting up a mechanism for this huge soft money thing. The Democrats are also. We're talking about hundreds of millions of dollars, if not billions, that are going to be washing around in this next presidential campaign usually in the form of negative ads. And don't you think we as candidates ought to say we will have nothing to do with that corruption of our system?",
"McCain: I'm the only guy that has a commercial running that morph's Bill Clinton's face into mine.",
"McCain: I believe that we do have a problem and that is that there is a growing gap between the haves and the have-nots in America, those that are able to take part in this information technology and those that haven't.",
"We took a major step forward when we decided to wire every school and library in America to the Internet. That's a good program. We have to have step two, three and four, which means good equipment, good teachers and good classrooms.",
"Now, I would do it directly, but there are lots of ways that you can encourage corporations, who in their own self-interest would want to provide — receive tax benefits, would receive credit, and many other ways for being involved in the schools and upgrading the quality of the equipment that they have, the quality of the students, and thereby providing a much needed, well-trained work force.",
"McCain: It was a government program that invented the Internet.",
"McCain: I think it was Al Gore. I invented television.",
"McCain: Sir.",
"McCain: Well, I think maybe President Clinton's looks too much like mine. He looked too much like me when he signed the Welfare Reform Act. He looked too much like me in a number of shifts that he made to the center for political expediency.",
"Look, we all know we've got a ticking time bomb out there, and it's called the Social Security trust fund, Bernie. And starting in 2014 there will be more money going out than in. According to Senator Gregg, Governor Bush's campaign chairman here in New Hampshire, there's a $5 trillion unfunded liability out there in the form of the Social Security trust fund.",
"It has to — if we can put the money in quick, then we will be able to allow people to invest their payroll taxes into investments of their choosing and make a huge amount of difference in the solvency of their retirement fund. This is a very, very important issue, because in good times — in good times, not bad times — when we have a surplus, we should give the middle-income Americans a tax break.",
"They need it. They pay as much as 40 percent of their income in taxes. But at the same time, people in New Hampshire are telling me, Senator McCain, save Social Security, put some money into Medicare, and pay down that debt, and don't put that burden on future generations of Americans.",
"More young Americans believe Elvis is alive than they believe that they'll ever see a social security check.",
"McCain: Yes.",
"McCain: Sure, which is one trillion.",
"McCain: Less than what? Less than projected?",
"McCain: That's why I have percentages of the surplus to be put in. Sixty-two percent of the surplus to be put into social security, 23 percent in the tax cuts, 10 percent into Medicare and the remainder into paying down the debt.",
"And I agree with you, these estimates are economists' words for guesses. And I'm not positive that we will continue to have the surpluses as they are presently envisioned. So, therefore, we want to be cautious.",
"I think it's conservative in good times to put money into Social Security; it's conservative to pay down the debt; and it's conservative clearly to try to save Medicare; and at the same time, give these tax breaks to American families, including making that tax flatter up and up and up.",
"I want to lift the 15 percent tax bracket up to couples making $70,000 a year. I think we can do it.",
"McCain: I voted to convict the president of the United States on grounds that he lied under oath. In fact, there was a discussion at the time as to whether we expect the same standards of a member of the military as the president of the United States. No, we don't expect the same standards, we expect a higher standards from members — from the president of the United States than members of the military.",
"The people of this country are suffering from Clinton fatigue, and it's because they want someone who will look them in the eye and tell them the truth. That's the pledge I've made to the people of New Hampshire and the people of this country.",
"McCain: George, strangely enough.",
"McCain: We all know Washington spends too much money. In fact, last November there was an incredible bill passed full of earmarked pork barrel spending.",
"They spent the then-$14 billion surplus that was going to — supposed to be there for this year. And you said you supported that bill, and that you sign it as president of the United States. I voted against it, said as president I would veto it, and saw it as one of the most egregious practices.",
"Tell me, what corporate loopholes would you close? And what spending cuts would you make?",
"McCain: George, you seem to depict the role of the president as a hapless bystander. This president is threatening to shut down the government and vetoing bills to force the Congress to spend more money. An active president of the United States — i.e., me — will veto bills and threaten to shut down the government to make them spend less money.",
"Look, you have been talking about how you want to increase the military. We don't have unlimited funds. Tell me, is there any military programs that you would reduce spending on?",
"McCain: And I appreciate new dedication to reducing the debt. I — your plan...",
"McCain: ... and I could have written myself. And I congratulate you.",
"McCain: Well, first of all, George, if you're saying that I'm like Al Gore, then you're spinning like Bill Clinton. OK. Let's — let's clear that one up.",
"Second of all, I believe that we need choice and competition in schools. The problem with yours is you give too much power to the federal bureaucracy in Washington. I want the states to make those decisions. I want to encourage charter schools. I want to have a test voucher program using ethanol, gas and oil subsidies and sugar subsidies so we can start a test program in the poorest school districts in every state in America.",
"You want to use funds from public education. I don't want to take funds from public education, I want to take it from the subsidies that you support. You went to Iowa and supported ethanol subsidies. You went to Florida and support the sugar subsidies. And we know how you feel about oil and gas subsidies. That's why I had the question about which subsidy would you do away with.",
"But the point is that if we have choice and competitions, charter schools, voucher programs, merit pay for teachers based on student performance, then we will give every American parent the choice that they deserve. And that is to send their child to the school of their choice. And that's an important element in any overall education program and proposal.",
"And moms and dads and kids deserve a lot better than what they're getting today.",
"McCain: George, as a governor you should understand and I thought you would cherish the rights and authority of the state rather than handing it over to Washington. Your proposal has that decision made by some nameless, faceless bureaucrat in Washington, D.C. They're the ones that tell the states they're not meeting the standards.",
"I want the folks in my state to set the standards and tell them when they're meeting the standards. That's the critical part.",
"McCain: No, you have the federal bureaucracy make it.",
"McCain: But the overall problem too is that you're asking — you're asking to — money to take out of public education for vouchers when they need that money. Let's — let's kill off that sugar subsidy, let's kill off that ethanol subsidy that helps nobody except perhaps Archer Daniels Midland. And let's take that money and put it into the education of our children. That's where we can really help parents in America.",
"McCain: You know, Mr. Keyes, you attacked me earlier on about my position on defending the rights of the unborn. I want to tell you something. I've seen enough killing in my life. I know how precious human life is. And I don't need a lecture from you.",
"McCain: The next time, try decaf.",
"Keyes: ... your answer showed no understanding of the issue of moral principle involved in abortion. And that inadequacy is not a lecture; it's simply an observation of fact.",
"McCain: I don't know, I love debates. They're all fun. And the more the merrier. It's fine with me. By the way, George, we've had several offers for you and I to debate one on one. I've accepted them. I hope you will...",
"McCain: Right.",
"McCain: We can include them, and we can exclude them. We can have lots of debates. We've had several that they've just asked you and me to engage in.",
"Look, it's an important part of the political process. I think it's a great chance for people to really get to know the candidates. It's part of this political process. And I enjoy it. And I hope we can have lots of them.",
"McCain: Well said.",
"McCain: Help me out, George...",
"McCain: This court ruling is a magnificent affirmation of the efforts that I and reformers have been making for many years. And you know, Governor Bush says that it's unilateral disarmament if we get the special interests out of Washington. I see it as a clear road to victory. Because when I'm in the debate with Al Gore, I'm going to turn to Al Gore and I'm going to say, You and Bill Clinton debased the institutions of government in 1996 when you were engaged in reprehensible conduct, and then you said there was no controlling legal authority.",
"I'm going to give you a controlling legal authority. And I'm going to make what they did illegal.",
"And, George, when you're in that debate, you're going to stand there and you'll have nothing to say because you're defending this system.",
"You know, you've said that it's bad for our party if we have campaign finance reform. I've always had the belief that's what good for our country is good for our party.",
"McCain: Because there's an iron triangle in Washington, D.C., my friends, that have deprived you of your representation. It's big money and lobbyists and legislation that deprive you of your representation.",
"I'm going to break that iron triangle. They're scared to death down in Washington, in the lobbying community, because they know it's not going to be business as usual. And if there's anybody around that wants business as usual, they don't want to vote for John McCain.",
"I'm not proud when the Republican Party is taking $7 million from the tobacco companies. I'm appalled when I hear of these new setups of millions and millions of uncontrolled money that will never be disclosed.",
"We know what happened in '96; Chinese money flowed into the United States of America and our national security was compromised. That's wrong.",
"McCain: That's wrong. Until the last breath I draw, I'll give the government back to the American people.",
"McCain: You know and I know that labor gives millions of dollars...",
"McCain: ... and it would be effective, also.",
"McCain: Fine, I'll be glad to.",
"McCain: Well, I mean look, we know what happened. We know what's happening. It's now legal in America for a Chinese army-owned corporation, with a subsidiary in the United States of America, to give unlimited amounts of money to an American political campaign. I don't know how you defend that.",
"We know that the labor bosses go down with the big checks. We know the trial lawyers go down with the big checks. We would ban that. Clearly we want paycheck protection, but we really we also know what's going on with some of your people right now. They're setting up soft money to be used in the general — at least the media reports — in the general campaign.",
"My friends, we've got to fix this system before it lurches out of control, and young Americans won't take part in the political process. We had the lowest voter turnout in history in the 1998 election.",
"McCain: These young people need to be brought back into the political process. I'll do that.",
"McCain: This may be the last time I have a chance to talk directly to the people of New Hampshire. My dear friends, thank you for letting Cindy and me be your temporary neighbors. This has been one of the most wonderful and uplifting experiences in my life. I will cherish this memory always.",
"I just had my 103rd town hall meeting in Plymouth Armory, and it, like every other, was an enlightening and wonderful experience for me. I'm grateful. I promise you again, I will always tell the truth. I'll reform the government.",
"McCain: And I'll inspire a generation of Americans to commit themselves to causes greater than their self-interest. And I thank you."
er bought me Gary and never will.",
"Forbes: Good, Gary. Thank you for the question on China.",
"I believe that we must let the Chinese know what the rules of engagement are. If they want a prosperous relationship, they can have it. But you have to lay down the rules because then if they break those rules then you can take a course of action and unite this country and unite our allies.",
"The rules of engagement would include the understanding — we'd make it clear that they cannot run us out of Asia as they're trying to do now. And they cannot use force against Taiwan. Where they've made an agreement not to use force against Taiwan, we're going to hold them to it.",
"And that means we must rebuild our military instead of run it down. And we must move ahead with a missile defense system.",
"On human rights abuses, we will criticize them in every international forum possible. Dissidents in China have told me and others how important that is to put the spotlight on.",
"In terms of trade, of course we want trade with China. But it has to be two way. They have to genuinely reduce barriers, not the fake promises they've made to the — to the gullible Clinton-Gore administration.",
"And if China wishes to pass technology on to rogue states like North Korea or to Pakistan, we should put sanctions on specific Chinese companies, particularly those controlled by the People's Liberation Army.",
"So you let them know what the rules are. If they don't adhere to those rules, then you take the appropriate steps, including taking trade sanctions.",
"Forbes: I said Gary...",
"Forbes: Good.",
"Forbes: I'm trying to make it clear, Gary, in very simple terms. If China violates those rules of engagement, now that they know what they are, then trade is going to be on the table, including most-favored-nation. And most-favored-nation will be withdrawn if they want that confrontation. But you must first, if you are a responsible president, lay out to the Chinese what those rules are. Then, if they break those rules, you can take the appropriate steps.",
"You want to do it when you get right in. I want to let the Chinese know there's a new foreign policy in the United States of America, a real one based on strength, based on values. And if they want a relationship with us, here's how you can have it. If not, they can have that confrontation, and we'll win against them, just as we did against the Soviets and other tyrants in this century.",
"Forbes: The key to helping Americans, who are born with the least in terms of education, is allowing parents to pick the schools they think best for their children. Then those schools will get their act together.",
"Government getting involved in this will just breed corruption, a lot of interests breaking off money on this.",
"The way you get universal access is to let technology flourish. The price of computing is plummeting. Access is becoming easier and more and more accessible. The government won't guarantee universal access. The free flow of technology will.",
"Forbes: I think the answer is basically, yes, I would. I think NASA still has a role. It's very different today than it was 30 years ago when they were the only agency to be able to get real exploration and win that race to the moon.",
"So they are very good in terms of trying to get satellites up there, rockets up there to do research. What happened with Mars was a clear case of mismanagement. They tried to hasten the building of that particular vehicle, and then micro-manage it on the way. That doesn't work.",
"What I think we need more with NASA and with the Pentagon is less of this micro-managing, which adds hugely to costs, and have a fundamental reform of contracting where you say what your goals are with a vehicle or a weapons system, and then put it in what they call skunk works, where you say get the job done, we're not going to micro-manage you.",
"When that has been tried in government contracting with the Pentagon, it has led to good weapons systems, it has led to far lower costs and a far better timetable. And the same thing should be done with NASA. We want to go out to the stars. We want to go out to space. We are a curious people, and that's not going to stop. But NASA has to realize it's got to do it better and use those resources better to leave for the private sector.",
"Forbes: Oh, we're going to have a very aggressive space program. But unlike what we had 30 years ago, in the 1960s, 30, 40 years ago, you're going to see a lot more involvement by the private sector.",
"Thanks to technology this is becoming, in effect, cheaper and cheaper. They're finding new ways to get these rocketships up, and they should bear the risks when they don't work instead of American taxpayers.",
"So NASA has a role as prodder, with doing exploration, getting information. But I want the private sector to be more aggressively involved. Just as we did exploring the Earth, we can do now, thanks to technology, the same thing with space.",
"Forbes: This president has lied repeatedly. And I don't think it's going to work to, say, try to get in a situation where he may not say something for national security reasons, as Dwight Eisenhower did. But that is very different from lying under oath, which this president did. That is a felony, and he should have been removed for it.",
"It's also very different when he takes — has the FBI send over 900 files on his political opponents to his political operatives. That should have made removal from office. Real crimes, yes, absolutely.",
"Forbes: I believe in the sovereignty of the American nation and the American people. I believe in a U.S., not a U.N. foreign policy. I believe that we should destroy or send the International Monetary Fund to the political equivalent of Jurassic Park, given what it's done.",
"Concerning the World Trade Organization, Clinton and Gore have made a total hash of the thing. The whole thing was supposed to be designed to mediate trade disputes, so they can reduce barriers that are in the way of our products and services. We're the biggest trading nation in the world. And they discriminate against our products like no other nation.",
"The WTO is like the woolly mammoth. I think we have to take direct action. If that organization can't get it's act together, let it stay on the side and we take direct action, as I propose to do, in reducing trade barriers with our partners, starting with the North Atlantic Free Trade Agreement with Ireland and Britain. And we should do the same thing with Australia and other countries in the Pacific rim. That way we can stop this discrimination against our products and the WTO can go it's own way.",
"Keyes: Sadly speaking, though I will try to be as polite about it as I can. I seem to suffer from Gary's problem. I asked you a yes or no question and could not get a yes or no answer.",
"I think that the World Trade Organization — and this isn't a question just of its effects out there in the world. In principle, we have done something that undercuts the sovereignty of the American people, and that puts us in a position that violates the constitutional principle, no legislation without representation.",
"Will you withdraw us from the unrepresentative body?",
"Forbes: I'm not going to withdraw us from that body for the very simple reason, it's supposed to be there to help reduce barriers. If it doesn't, then we bid it goodbye.",
"We are a sovereign nation. If they do something that is truly egregious and breaks agreements on reducing trade barriers, we have the power to take direct action and pull out and say, No, we're not going to abide with it.",
"So this is an organization we should try to use to reduce our barriers, because our farmers are discriminated against, our manufacturers are discriminated against, our services are discriminated against. We need every vehicle and diplomatic tool possible to get those barriers down. Because when you have a level playing field, America reigns supreme.",
"And that's what I want. And if the WTO can't do it, I've got direct action in reducing those barriers. That's the key. We are sovereign.",
"Other nations are discriminating against us. As a businessman, I've seen how they do it. I know how to get these barriers down, unlike the Clinton-Gore administration.",
"Forbes: Gary, there's a lot of movement now, that we read, about peace in the Middle East, and a lot of pressure being put by President Clinton on Barak to make an agreement with Syria, and make an agreement with the Palestinians.",
"It's two-part question. Do you believe, as I do, that this administration is pushing them to make a premature agreement that could hurt the sovereignty, and hurt the security of Israel, our own democratic ally in the Middle East? And, if they do push them into an agreement, would you go along with using tens of billions of taxpayers' dollars to finance an agreement with Syria and Israel?",
"Forbes: In terms of Syria, I think we'd all agree and I hope you do too, that at the very least we should demand of Syria that they cease financing terrorist organizations. This administration's turned a blind eye to it. And we should demand that Syria withdraw its strategic alliance with North Korea and Iran in developing missile technology.",
"Would you join with me in making that minimal demand of Syria?",
"Forbes: I think it is grossly unfair to put that kind of power in the hands of pollsters and elites. In Iowa the pollsters had me down. The media elites wanted to cut me out of the debates as best as they could. So I want to put it in the hands of the people, and not the elites. In terms of the debates, the reason they get to set those criteria is because taxpayers' money is used to finance those campaigns.",
"I want individuals to be able to finance America's campaigns and not have it subsidized by the federal government, where your money is used to subsidize views you may not agree with.",
"And also, too, in New York state, I've seen what the elites have done to try to knock us off the ballot if we're not chosen Soviet style.",
"Forbes: John McCain's a victim of it. I've been too. We've got stop it...",
"Forbes: Bernie, the answer is no, for a very basic reason. You just saw here, you violated the rules that you set for this debate. And the American people want to hear from all of the candidates. They want to hear it straight from the candidates. When you set — when you say you'll give candidates free time, nothing comes free from the federal government. There'll be strings attached. There'll be regulations. And this whole system in the last 25-years has been designed to keep outsiders out and to give incumbents real protection.",
"That's why the Supreme Court was wrong when it allowed those limits to stay in place. I want individuals to be able to have the freedom to give as much as they want to a candidate or a campaign as long as there's full and prompt disclosure.",
"Thirty years ago, in 1968, that was how a senator from Minnesota could challenge a sitting president. The rules are designed to perpetuate the establishment.",
"And so if you can get your message out in 30 seconds, do it. If you want to do it and raise the funds for 30 minutes, go do it. If you do it with the Internet, which I've done, getting a whole message out and showing that I have the real tax reform, unlike two of my colleagues here tonight who want to preserve the IRS as we know it, and not make fundamental tax reform, that is how you get the message you. You have a variety of ways to do it.",
"The government suppresses the free flow of information.",
"Forbes: I was referring to the fact that you had a set with George Bush and John McCain, because, let's face it, the media thinks that's where the contest is. I wanted to put it in the hands of the voters. And I'm tired of these debates...",
"Forbes: OK. But in these debates, they always seem to try to have the rules, and they make rules and then they violate those rules. Gary and I could have a real set-to on China. Alan and I could probably do it on the woolly mammoth WTO. But it should be equal time for the candidates.",
"Forbes: Thank you very much. It's been a great pleasure to be here tonight.",
"I'm an independent outsider. The Washington special interests have no hooks in me. I've got the conservative principles: Getting rid of this tax code and allowing you to keep more of what you earn, do it now, not five years from now.",
"I've got a plan of action on moving the life issue forward to the human life amendment; of giving you choice on choosing your own schools and choosing your own doctors, and having control of your Social Security system; of rebuilding our military and keeping faith with our veterans.",
"Forbes: But that can't be done with politics as usual, and I plead for your support. Thank you very much."
