"OBAMA: (Cheers, applause.) Well, thank you, Wolf. Thank you. Thank you.",
"First of all -- first of all, I want to acknowledge a candidate who left the race this week, John Edwards, who did such an outstanding job -- (applause) -- elevating the issues of poverty and the plight of working families all across the country, and we wish him and Elizabeth well. He's going to be a voice for this party and for this country for many years to come.",
"I also want to note something that you noted at the beginning, which is that when we started off, we had eight candidates on this stage. We now are down to two, after 17 debates. And, you know, it is a testimony to the Democratic Party and it is a testimony to this country that we have the opportunity to make history, because I think one of us two will end up being the next president of the United States of America. (Cheers, applause.)",
"I also want to note that I was friends with Hillary Clinton before we started this campaign. I will be friends with Hillary Clinton after this campaign is over. (Applause.) She has done -- she's run a -- we're running a competitive race, but it's because we both love this country, and we believe deeply in the issues that are at stake.",
"I believe we're at a defining moment in our history. Our nation is at war. Our planet is in peril. Families all across the country are struggling with everything from back-breaking health care costs to trying to stay in their homes. And at this moment, the question is, how do we take the country in a new direction? How do we get past the divisions that have prevented us from solving these problems year after year after year?",
"I don't think the choice is between black and white, or it's about gender or religion. I don't think it's about young or old. I think what is at stake right now is whether we are looking backwards or we were looking forwards. I think it is the past versus the future. (Applause.)",
"OBAMA: And -- just to finish up, Wolf -- the -- and I think that as we move forward in this debate, understand we are both Democrats, and we understand the issues at stake.",
"We want change from George Bush but we also have to have change that brings the country together, pushes back against the special interests in Washington and levels with the American people about the difficult changes that we make. If we do that, I am confident that we can solve any problem, and we can fulfill the destiny that America wants to see, not just next year but in the many years to come. (Cheers, applause.)",
"OBAMA: Well, I actually think that a couple of the ones that Hillary mentioned are genuine policy differences. They're worthy of debate.",
"Let's take health care. About 95 percent of our plans are similar. We both set up a government plan that would allow people who otherwise don't have health insurance, because of a pre-existing condition, like my mother had, or at least what the insurance said was a pre-existing condition -- let them get health insurance.",
"We both want to emphasize prevention because we've got to do something about ever-escalating costs and we don't want children, who I meet all the time, going to emergency rooms for treatable illnesses like asthma.",
"It is true we've got a policy difference because my view is that the reason people don't have health care -- and I meet them all the time: in South Carolina, a mother whose child has cerebral palsy and could not get insurance for it and started crying during a town hall meeting. Hillary, I'm sure, has had the same experiences. What they're struggling with is they can't afford the health care. And so I emphasize reducing costs.",
"My belief is -- is that if we make it affordable, if we provide subsidies to those who can't afford it, they will buy it. Senator Clinton has a different approach. She believes that we have to force people who don't have health insurance to buy it, otherwise there will be a lot of people who don't get it.",
"I don't see those folks.",
"And I think that it is important for us to recognize that if, in fact, you're going to mandate the purchase of insurance and it's not affordable, then there's going to have to be some enforcement mechanism that the government uses. And they may charge people who already don't have health care fines or have to take it out of their paychecks. And that I don't think is helping those without health insurance. That is a genuine difference. (Applause.)",
"On the mortgage crisis -- on the mortgage crisis, again we both believe that this is a critical problem. It's a huge problem in California and all across the country. And we agree that we have to keep people in their homes.",
"So I've put forward a $10 billion home foreclosure prevention fund that would help to bridge the lender and the borrower so that people can stay in their homes.",
"I have not signed on to the notion of an interest rates freeze, and the reason is not because we need to protect the banks; the problem is, is that if we have such a freeze, mortgage interest rates will go up across the board and you will have a lot of people who are currently trying to get mortgages who will actually have more of a difficult time. So, some of the people that we want to protect could end up being hurt by such a plan. (Scattered applause.)",
"Now, keep in mind the one thing I suspect that Senator Clinton and I agree on. Part of the reason we're in this mortgage mess is because there's been complete lack of oversight on the part of the Bush administration. (Applause.) The mortgage lending industry spent $185 billion -- 105 -- 80 -- $185 million lobbying to prevent provisions that go against predatory lending, for example, that I introduced.",
"Which brings me to another difference. I believe that it is very important for us to reduce the influence of lobbyists and special interests in Washington. (Cheers, applause.) I think that a lot of the issues that both Senator Clinton and I care about will not move forward unless we have increased the kinds of ethics proposals that I passed just last year, some of the toughest since Watergate. That's something that John Edwards and I both talked about repeatedly in this campaign. That's why I don't take federal PAC and federal lobbyist money. That is a difference.",
"And the last point I'll make is on Iraq. Senator Clinton brought this up. I was opposed to Iraq from the start. (Cheers, applause.) And that -- and I say that not just to look backwards but also to look forwards, because I think what the next president has to show is the kind of judgment that will ensure that we are using our military power wisely.",
"It is true that I want to elevate diplomacy, so that it is part of our arsenal to serve the American people's interests and to keep us safe.",
"And I have disagreed with Senator Clinton on, for example, meeting with Iran. I think -- and the National Intelligence Estimate, the last report suggested that if we are meeting with them, talking to them, and offering them both carrots and sticks, they are more likely to change their behavior, and we can do so in a way that does not ultimately cost billions of dollars, thousands of lives, and hurt our reputation around the world. (Applause.)",
"OBAMA: Understand who we're talking about here. Every expert who looks at it says anybody who wants health care will be able to get health care under my plan. There won't be anybody out there who wants health care who will not be able to get it. That's point number one. So the estimate is -- this is where the 15 million figure comes in -- is that there are 15 million people who don't want health care. That's the argument.",
"Now, first of all, I dispute that there are 15 million people out there who don't want it. I believe that there are people who can't afford it and if we provide them enough subsidies, they will purchase it, number one. Number two: I mandate coverage for all children. (Applause.) Number three: I say that young people, who are the most likely to be healthy but think they're invulnerable and decide, I don't need health care, what I'm saying is that insurance companies and my plan as well will allow people up to 25 years old to be covered under their parents' plan.",
"So as a consequence, I don't believe that there will be 15 million out there.",
"Now, under any mandate, you're going to have problems with people who don't end up having health coverage. Massachusetts right now embarked on an experiment where they mandated coverage. And by the way, I want to congratulate Governor Schwarzenegger and the speaker and others who have been trying to do this in California, but I know that those who have looked at it understand. You can mandate it, but there are still going to be people who can't afford it. And if they cannot afford it, then the question is, what are you going to do about it? Are you going to fine them? Are you going to garnish their wages?",
"Those are questions that Senator Clinton has not answered with respect to her plan, but I think we can anticipate that there would also be people potentially who are not covered and are actually hurt if they have a mandate imposed on them.",
"OBAMA: If people are gaming the system, there are ways that we can address that, by for example making them pay some of the back premiums for not having gotten it in the first place.",
"But understand that number one, Hillary says that she's got enough subsidies.",
"Well, we've priced out both our plan and Senator Clinton's plan, and some of the subsidies are not going to be sufficient, point number one.",
"Point number two is that I am actually not interested in just capping premiums. I want to lower premiums by about an average of $2,500 per family, per year, because people right now cannot afford it. I can't tell you how many folks I meet who have premiums that are so high that essentially they don't have health insurance. They have house insurance. (Scattered applause.)",
"What they do is they have a $10,000 deductible or what have you to try to reduce costs. They never go to a doctor. And that ended up something that we paid for. So I'm trying to reduce premiums for all families.",
"But the last point I want to make has to do with how we're going to actually get this plan done. You know, Ted Kennedy said that he is confident that we will get universal health care with me as president, and he's been working on it longer than I think about -- than anybody. But he's gone through 12 of these plans, and each time they have failed.",
"And part of the reason I think that they have failed is we have not been able to bring Democrats, Republicans together to get it done.",
"That's what I did in Illinois -- (applause) -- to provide insurance for people who did not have it. That's what I will do in bringing all parties together, not negotiating behind closed doors but bringing all parties together, and broadcasting those negotiations on C-SPAN so that the American people can see what the choices are, because part of what we have to do is enlist -- (applause) -- the American people in this process, and overcoming the special interests and the lobbyists who are -- Senator Clinton is right; they will resist anything that we try to do.",
"My plan, her plan, they will try to resist. And the antidote to that is making sure that the American people understand what is at stake. I'm absolutely committed to making sure that anybody in America who needs health care is going to get it.",
"OBAMA: No, it's not a swipe. This is something that I've been talking about consistently. What I want to do is increase transparency and accountability to offset the power of the special interests and the lobbyists. (Applause.) If a drug company -- if the drug companies or a member of Congress who's carrying water for the drug companies wants to argue that we should not negotiate for the cheapest available price on drugs, then I want them to make that argument in front of the American people.",
"And I will have experts who explain that, in fact, it is legitimate for drug companies to make profits, but they are making outsized profits on the backs of senior citizens who need those prescription drugs. And that is an argument that the American people have to be involved with. Otherwise we're not going to get any plan through. (Applause.)",
"OBAMA: Well, first of all, I don't think the Republicans are going to be in a real strong position to argue fiscal responsibility when they've added 4 (trillion dollars) or $5 trillion worth of national debt. (Cheers, applause.)",
"You know, I am happy to have that argument.",
"If John McCain, for example, is the nominee, I respect that John McCain in the first two rounds of Bush tax cuts said it is irresponsible; that we have never before cut taxes at the same time as we are going into war. And somewhere along the line the Straight Talk Express lost some wheels -- (laughter) -- and now he is in favor of extending Bush tax cuts that went to some of the wealthiest Americans, who don't need them and were not even asking for them.",
"So I've already said a sizable portion of my health care plan will be paid for because we emphasize savings. We invest in prevention. So that, you know, as I said before, the chronically ill, that account for 20 ppercent -- or the 20 percent of chronically ill patients that account for 80 percent of the cost -- that they're getting better treatment. We are actually paying for a dietician for people to lose weight, as opposed to paying for the $30,000 foot amputation. That will save us money.",
"We can conservatively save 100 (billion dollars) to $150 billion a year under my plan. That pays for part of it. Part of it is paid for by rolling back the Bush tax cuts on the top 1 percent.",
"(Applause.)",
"Now, so my plan is paid for. But one thing that I think we're going to have to do as Democrats when we go after the Republicans is, the question is not tax cuts, tax hikes. The question is, who are the tax cuts for? Who are the tax hikes imposed upon?",
"What we have had right now is a situation where we cut taxes for people who don't need them. Warren Buffett has said, you know, I made $46 million last year. That was a bad year for me, but I can still afford to pay more than my secretary, who has a higher tax rate than I do. That is not fair, and I want to change that.",
"We've got a trillion dollars worth of corporate tax loopholes and tax havens, and I've said I will close those. And I will give tax cuts to people making $75,000 a year or less by offsetting their payroll tax. Senior citizens making less than $50,000 a year -- we want to eliminate taxes for them.",
"So the question is, can we restore a sense of balance to our economy and make sure that those of us who are blessed and fortunate, and have thrived in this economy, in this global economy, that we can afford to pay a little bit more, so that that child in East Los Angeles, who is in a crumbling school with teachers that are having to dig into their own pockets for school supplies, that they are having a chance at the American dream as well? I'm happy to have that argument. (Cheers, applause.)",
"OBAMA: On -- on -- on -- on wealthy Americans.",
"OBAMA: And then look, I -- I -- I'm not --",
"OBAMA: I'm not bashful about it.",
"OBAMA: I suspect a lot of this crowd. It looks like a pretty well-dressed crowd. (Laughter.)",
"OBAMA: You guys are -- potentially pay a little bit more. I will pay a little bit more.",
"But as I said, you know, we have, I believe, a moral obligation to make sure that everybody has the opportunity to get health care in this country.",
"And one last point I want to make. We will have to make some up- front costs. That's why -- in either of our plans. You know, if we want to invest in electronic medical records, then we've got to go to rural hospitals who might not be able to afford it and say we're going to help you buy the computer software and -- and the machinery to make sure that this works. But that investment will pay huge dividends over the long term, and the place where it will pay the biggest dividends is in Medicare and Medicaid because if we can get a healthier population, that is the only way over the long term that we can actually control that spending that is going to break the federal budget. (Cheers, applause.)",
"OBAMA: They were doing just fine.",
"OBAMA: Well, let me first of all say that I have worked on the streets of Chicago as an organizer, with people who've been laid off from steel plants -- black, white, Hispanic, Asian -- and all of them are feeling economically insecure right now, and they have been for many years. Before the latest round of immigrants showed up, you had huge unemployment rates among African-American youth.",
"And so I think to suggest somehow that the problem that we're seeing, in inner city unemployment for example, is attributable to immigrants, I think, is a case of scapegoating that I do not believe in, I do not subscribe to. (Cheers, applause.)",
"And this is where we do have a very real difference with the other party. I believe that we can be a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants.",
"Now, there is no doubt that we have to get control of our borders. We can't have hundreds of thousands of people coming over to the United States without us having any idea who they are. I also believe that we do have to crack down on those employers that are taking advantage of the situation, hiring folks who cannot complain about worker conditions, who aren't getting the minimum wage sometimes or aren't getting overtime. We have to crack down on them. I also believe we have to give a pathway to citizenship, after they have paid a fine and learned English, to those who are already here. Because if we don't, they will continue to undermine U.S. wages.",
"But let's understand more broadly that the economic problems that African Americans are experiencing, whites are experiencing, blacks and Latinos are experiencing in this country are all rooted in the fact that we have had an economy out of balance. We've had tax cuts that went up instead of down. We have had a lack of investment in basic infrastructure in this country. Our education system is chronically underfunded.",
"(Applause.) And so there are a whole host of reasons why we have not been generating the kinds of jobs that we are generating. We should not use immigration as a -- as a tactic to divide. Instead we should pull the country together to get this economy back on track. That's what I intend to do as president of the United States of America.",
"(Applause.)",
"OBAMA: Well, what I meant was that when this issue came up, not driver's license but comprehensive immigration reform generally, I worked with Ted Kennedy, I worked with Dick Durbin, I worked with John McCain -- although he may not admit it now -- (laughter) -- to move this issue forward aggressively.",
"And it's a hard political issue, let's be honest. This is not an issue that polls well. But I think it is the right thing to do. And I think we have to show leadership on the issue. (Applause.)",
"And it is important for us, I believe, to recognize that the problems that workers are experiencing generally are not primarily caused by immigration.",
"OBAMA: (Inaudible.)",
"OBAMA: That is -- what I said was that we have to stand up for these issues when it's tough. And that's what I've done. I did it when I was in the state legislature, sponsoring the Illinois version of the DREAM Act, so that children who were brought here through no fault of their own are able to go to college, because we actually want well-educated kids -- (applause) -- in our country who are able to -- who are able to succeed and become part of this economy and part of the American dream.",
"OBAMA: Wolf, you keep on trying to -- trying to push on --",
"OBAMA: There are those who were opposed to this issue and there have been those who have flipped on the issue and have run away from the issue.",
"This wasn't directed particularly at Senator Clinton, but the fact of the matter is, I have stood up consistently on this issue.",
"On the driver's license issue, I don't actually want -- I don't believe that we're going to have to deal with this if we have comprehensive immigration reform because, as I said before, people don't come here to drive, they come here to work. (Applause.) And if we have signed them up -- if they have -- if we have registered them, if they have paid a fine, if they are learning English, if they are going to the back of the line, if we fix our legal immigration system, then I believe we will not have this problem of undocumented workers in this country because people will be able to actually go on pathway to citizenship. That, I think, is the right approach for African- Americans, I think it's the right approach for Latinos, I think it's the right approach for white workers here in the United States as well. (Applause.)",
"OBAMA: The only point I would make is, Senator Clinton gave a number of different answers over the course of six weeks on this issue, and that did appear political.",
"Now, you know, at this point she's got a clear position, but it took a while. (Applause.) And --",
"OBAMA: I'm just being -- just in fairness, initially in a debate you said you were for it. Then you said you were against it. And the only reason I bring that up is to underscore the fact that this is a difficult political issue.",
"From my perspective, I agree with Bill Richardson that there is a public safety concern here and that we're better off -- because I don't want a bunch of hit-and-run drivers because they're worried about being deported and so they don't report an accident. That is a judgment call. (Scattered applause.)",
"But I do think it is important to recognize that this can be tough. And the question is, who is going to tackle this problem and solve it? Many of the solutions that Senator Clinton just talked about are solutions that I agree with, that I've been working on for many years. And my suspicion is, whatever our differences, we're going to have big differences with the Republicans. But I think a practical, common-sense solution to the problem is what the American people are looking for.",
"OBAMA: I agree.",
"OBAMA: (Joined in progress from the source) -- Americans disagree -- (laughs, cheers, applause) -- and think that we need to move forward with new leadership. So I -- that's why we're having this contest.",
"You know, I have spent my entire adult life trying to bring about change in this country. I started off as a community organizer working on the streets of Chicago, providing job training and -- and after-school programs and economic development for neighborhoods that had been devastated by steel plants that had closed. I worked as a civil rights attorney, turning down lucrative corporate jobs to provide justice for those who'd been denied on the job or at the ballot box. (Applause.) I worked as a state legislator for years, providing health care to people who did not have it, reforming a death penalty system that was broken -- (scattered applause) -- providing tax relief to those who needed it. and in the United States Senate, I've worked on everything from nuclear proliferation to issues of alternative energy. And in each instance, what I have found is is that the leadership that's needed is the ability to bring people together who otherwise don't see anything in common; the ability to overcome the special interests -- and I passed both in Washington and in Illinois comprehensive ethics reform that opened up government so that the American people could be involved; and talking straight to the American people about how we're going to solve these problems, and putting in the hard work of negotiations to get stuff done.",
"So I respect Senator Clinton's record. I think it's a -- it's a terrific record. But I also believe that the skills that I have are the ones that are needed right now to move the country forward; otherwise, I wouldn't be running for president of the United States of America. (Cheers, applause.)",
"OBAMA: Let me just also point out that Mitt Romney hasn't gotten a very good return on his investment during this presidential campaign. (Laughter, applause.) So I'm happy to take a look at my management style during the course of this last year and his.",
"I think they compare fairly well. (Laughter, cheers, applause.)",
"OBAMA: Oh, I think there's no doubt that there were good things that happened during those eight years of the Clinton administration. I think that's undeniable.",
"Look, we're all Democrats. And particularly when looked through the lens of the last eight years with George Bush, they look even better. So I don't want to diminish some of the accomplishments that occurred during those eight years. And I absolutely agree with Senator Clinton that ultimately each of us have to be judged on our own merits. All of us have endorsers, and ultimately you've got to take a look and see, who do you want in that White House?",
"I do think that there was something that happened, and we've been seeing it all across the country. We saw it at the event with Senator Kennedy. We are bringing in a whole generation of new voters, which I think is exciting. (Cheers, applause.)",
"And part of the task, I believe, of leadership is the hard nuts- and-bolts of getting legislation passed and managing the bureaucracy. But part of it is also being able to call on the American people to reach higher, to say we shouldn't settle for an economy that does very well for some but leaves millions of people behind.",
"We should not accept a school in South Carolina that was built in the 1800s where kids are having to learn in trailers, and every time the railroad goes by the tracks, the building shakes and the teacher has to stop teaching.",
"We should not accept a foreign policy that has seen our respect diminish around the world and has not made us more safe. (Applause.)",
"So the question is -- part of the question is who can work the levers of power more effectively. Part of the question is also who can inspire the American people to get re-engaged in their government again, push back the special interests, reduce the influence of lobbyists. And that is something that I have worked on all my life and we are seeing in this campaign.",
"And one of the things I'm thrilled with is -- and this is good news for Democrats -- every single election that we've had so far in this contest, you've seen the number of people participating in the Democratic primary double. (Applause.) Now, that's not all due to me. Senator Clinton is attracting enthusiasm and support as well. But I can say, for example, in Iowa about 60 percent of those new voters voted for me. And that, I think, changes the electoral map in such a way where we're going to have more people ready to move forward on the agendas that we all agree with. That's part of the leadership I want to provide as president. (Applause.)",
"OBAMA: Well, you know, I -- I think it is important for us to be as careful getting out as we were careless getting in. And -- (applause) -- so I have said very clearly I will end this war. We will not have a permanent occupation and we will not have permanent bases in Iraq. (Applause.) When John McCain suggests that we might be there a hundred years, that I think indicates a profound lack of understanding that we've got a whole host of global threats out there -- including Iraq, but we've got a -- a big problem right now in Afghanistan. Pakistan is a great concern. We are neglecting potentially our foreign policy with respect to Latin America. China is strengthening. And if we neglect our economy by spending $200 billion every year in this war that has not made us more safe -- (applause) -- that is undermining our long-term security.",
"But I do think it is important for us to set a date. And the reason I think it is important is because if we are going to send a signal to the Iraqis that we are serious, and prompt the Shi'a, the Sunni and the Kurds to actually come together and negotiate, they have to have clarity about how serious we are. It can't be muddy. It can't be fuzzy. They've got to know that we are serious about this process.",
"And I also think we've got to be very clear about what our mission is, and there may be a difference here between Senator Clinton and myself in terms of the force structures that we would leave behind. Both of us have said we would make sure that our embassies and our civilians are protected. Both of us have said that we've got to care for Iraqi civilians, including the 4 million who have been displaced already. We already have a humanitarian crisis and we have not taken those responsibilities seriously. We both have said that we need to have a strike force that can take out potential terrorist bases that get set up in Iraq.",
"But the one thing that I think is very important is that we not get mission creep and we not start suggesting that we should have troops in Iraq to blunt Iranian influence.",
"If we were concerned about Iranian influence, we should not have had this government installed in the first place. (Applause.) We shouldn't have invaded in the first place. It was part of the reason that I think it was such a profound strategic error for us to go into this war in the first place -- (applause) -- and that's one of the reasons why I think I will be -- just to -- to -- just to finish up this point, I think I will be the Democrat who will be most effective in going up against a John McCain -- or any other Republican, because they all want basically a continuation of George Bush's policies -- because I will offer a clear contrast as somebody who never supported this war, thought it was a bad idea. I don't want to just end the war, but I want to end the mind-set that got us into war in the first place. That's the kind of leadership I intend to provide as president of the United States. (Cheers, applause.)",
"OBAMA: I wouldn't call it a \"swipe.\" I think --",
"OBAMA: We are having a -- we're having --",
"OBAMA: Yeah, absolutely. (Laughter, applause.)",
"OBAMA: Right.",
"OBAMA: I welcome the progress. This notion that Democrats don't want to see progress in Iraq is ridiculous. I have to hug mothers in rope lines during town hall meetings as they weep over their fallen sons and daughters.",
"I want to get our troops home safely, and I want us as a country to have this mission completed honorably. But the notion that somehow we have succeeded as a consequence of the recent reductions in violence means that we have set the bar so low it's buried in the sand at this point. (Cheers, applause.)",
"We -- and I said this before -- we went from intolerable levels of violence and a dysfunctional government to spikes and horrific levels of violence and a dysfunctional government, and now two years later we're back to intolerable levels of violence and a dysfunctional government. And in the meantime, we have spent billions of dollars, lost thousands of lives; thousands more have been maimed and injured as a consequence and are going to have difficulty putting their lives back together again.",
"So, understand that this has undermined our security. In the meantime, Afghanistan has slid into more chaos than existed before we went into Iraq.",
"I am happy to have that argument. I also think it is going to be important, though, for the Democrats -- you know, Senator Clinton mentioned the issue of gravitas and judgment. I think it is much easier for us to have the argument when we have a nominee who says, \"I always thought this was a bad idea, this was a bad strategy.\"",
"(Applause.)",
"It was not just a problem of execution -- it was not just a problem of execution.",
"I mean, they screwed up the execution of it in all sorts of ways. And I think even Senator McCain has acknowledged that.",
"The question is, can we make an argument that this was a conceptually flawed mission from the start, and that we need better judgment when we decide to send our young men and women into war, that we are making absolutely certain that it is because there is a imminent threat, that American interests are going to be protected, that we have a plan to succeed and to exit, that we are going to train our troops properly and equip them properly and put them on proper rotations and treat them properly when they come home?",
"And that is an argument that I think we are going to have a easier time making if they can't turn around and say, but hold on a second; you supported this. And that's part of the reason why I think that I would be the strongest nominee on this argument of national security. (Cheers, applause.)",
"OBAMA: I don't want to belabor this because I know we're running out of time, and I'm sure you guys want to move on to some other stuff. But I do have to just say this.",
"The legislation, the authorization, had the title An Authorization to Use Military Force, U.S. Military Force, in Iraq. I think everybody, the day after that vote was taken, understood, this was a vote potentially to go to war. (Applause.) I think people were very clear about that, if you look at the headlines.",
"The reason that this is important again is that Senator Clinton, I think, fairly has claimed that she's got the experience on day one. And part of the argument that I'm making in this campaign is that it is important to be right on day one -- (cheers, applause) -- and that the judgment that I've presented, on this issue and some other issues, is relevant to how we're going to make decisions in the future.",
"You know, it's not a function just of looking backwards. It's a function of looking forwards, and how are we going to be able to make a series of decisions in a very dangerous world? I mean, the terrorist threat is real. And precisely because it's real, and we've got finite resources, we don't have the capacity to just send our troops in anywhere we decide without good intelligence, without a clear rationale. That's the kind of leadership that I think we need from the next President of the United States. (Applause.)",
"That's what I intend to provide.",
"OBAMA: (Joined in progress from the source) -- six-year-old daughter. So I look at this not just as a legislator or a presidential candidate, but as a parent.",
"And as a parent, yes, I am concerned about what's coming over the airwaves. Now, right now my daughters mostly are on Nickelodeon, but they know how to work that remote. (Laughter.) And you know, the -- the primary responsibility is for parents, and I -- and I reject the notion of censorship as an approach to dealing with this problem. (Applause.)",
"I do think that it is important for us to make sure that we are giving parents the tools that they need in order to monitor what their children is -- are -- are watching. And obviously the problem we have now is not just what's coming over the Internet. And so for us to develop technologies and tools and invest in those technologies and tools to make sure that we are, in fact, giving parents power -- empowering parents I think is important.",
"The one other thing I will say is -- I don't mean to be insulting here, but -- but you know, I do think that it is important for those in the industry to show some -- some thought about who they are marketing some of these programs that are being produced to. (Applause.) And you know, I'm concerned about sex, but I'm also concerned, you know -- some of the violent slasher/horror films that come out, and you see a trailer, and I'm thinking, I don't want my six-year-old or nine-year-old seeing that trailer while she's watching \"American Idol.\" And sometimes, you know, you see that kind of stuff coming up. I think it is appropriate in a cooperative way to work with the industry to try to deal with that problem, and I intend to work in that fashion when I'm president of the United States of America. (Applause.)",
"OBAMA: Thankfully Michelle is not on stage. I'm sure she could tell some stories as well.",
"OBAMA: Well, obviously there's a big difference between those two. (Laughter.)",
"OBAMA: But, look, let me say this, and I said this at the top. I respect Senator Clinton. I think her service to this country has been extraordinary. And I'm glad that we've been walking on this road together and that we're still on that road.",
"We've got a lot more road to travel, and so I think it's premature for either of us to start speculating about vice presidents, et cetera. I think it would be premature and presumptuous.",
"I can say this about -- about who I want not just as vice president but as a Cabinet member. Part of what I'd like to do is restore a sense of what is possible in government. (Applause.) And that means having people of the -- of the greatest excellence and competence. It means people with integrity. It means people with independence, who are willing to say no to me -- (scattered applause) -- so that, you know, no more yes-men or -women in the White House -- (applause) -- and because I'm not going to be right on every single issue.",
"But you know, it is really important, I think, for us also to give the American people this sense -- as they struggling with their mortgages and struggling with their health care and trying to figure out how to get their kids in a school that will teach them and prepare them and equip them for this century, that they get a sense that government's on their side -- (applause) -- that government is listening to them, that it's carrying their voices into the White House.",
"And that's not what's happened over the last seven years. And whether it's my Cabinet or it is the lowest federal civil servant out there, I want them to understand they are working for the American people, to help the American people achieve their dreams. That's the reason I'm running for president of the United States of America. (Applause.)",
"OBAMA: Well, you know, I'm sure that Hillary would be on anybody's short list. (Laughter.) So --",
"OBAMA: What about my website? (Laughter.)",
"OBAMA: I'm teasing. (Laughter.)",
"OBAMA: Thanks."
