"OBAMA: Well, I think Iran continues to be a threat to some of its neighbors in the region. So they're still funding Hamas, they're still funding Hezbollah, and those are things we have to be concerned about.",
"But it is absolutely clear that this administration and President Bush continues to not let facts get in the way of his ideology. And that's been the problem with their foreign policy generally.",
"They should have stopped the saber rattling; should have never started it. And they need, now, to aggressively move on the diplomatic front.",
"I have said consistently, since the beginning of this campaign, that it is important for the president to lead diplomatic efforts, to try to offer to Iran the prospect of joining the World Trade Organization, potential normalized relations over time, in exchange for changes in behavior. That's something that has to be pursued.",
"OBAMA: Well, Senator Clinton's mention of the Chicago Tribune article back in 2004 I think is a little bit misleading. Because what I was specifically asked about was, if Iran was developing nuclear weapons, how could we respond? And in those situations, what I said is, We should keep options on the table.",
"But what I've been consistent about was that this saber-rattling was a repetition of Iraq, a war I opposed, and that we needed to oppose George Bush again. We can't keep on giving him the benefit of the doubt, knowing the ways in which they manipulate intelligence.",
"A moment ago, when Congressman Kucinich objected to -- or interrupted the statement from Senator Edwards that everybody agrees Iran is a threat, you say, Congressman Kucinich, I misinterpreted your earlier remarks that Iran is not a threat.",
"OBAMA: There was another problem with the resolution that we haven't spoken about, and that was that it suggested that we should structure, in some way, our forces in Iraq with the goal of blunting Iranian influence in Iraq.",
"Now, this is a problem on a whole bunch of fronts. But number one, the reason that Iran has been strengthened was because of this misguided war in Iraq.",
"We installed -- helped to elect a government in Iraq that we knew had connections with Iran. And so, the notion, somehow, that they're not going to have influence and that we may be using yet another justification for a continuing mission in Iraq, I think, is an extreme problem and one of the reasons why this was a bad idea.",
"OBAMA: Well, I think John's point is right, but I want to broaden it a little bit.",
"Listen to the Republican candidates' debates and how they frame this issue. And if you are a Muslim overseas, listening to Rudy Giuliani say, they are coming here to try to kill you, which is the tenor of many of the speeches that are delivered by the Republican candidates, you would get an impression that they are not interested in talking and resolving issues peacefully.",
"Now, what we need to do is we need to close Guantanamo. We need to restore habeas corpus. We need to send a strong signal that we are going to talk directly to, not just our friends, but also to our enemies.",
"And I have to say that, when I brought this up early on in this campaign, I was called naive and irresponsible.",
"And yet -- yet, the point -- the reason for that was not necessarily because we're going to change Ahmadinejad's mind. It's because we're going to change the minds of people inside Iran, moderate forces inside Iran, as well as our Muslim allies around the region, that we are willing to listen to them and try to engage in finding ways to resolve conflicts cooperatively.",
"OBAMA: Well, I think one of the things about the Obama doctrine is it's not going to be as doctrinaire as the Bush doctrine, because the world is complicated.",
"And I think part of the problem we've had is that ideology has overridden facts and reality.",
"But I think the basic concept, and I've heard it from some of the other folks, is that increasingly we have to view our security in terms of a common security and a common prosperity with other peoples and other countries.",
"And that means that if there are children in the Middle East who cannot read, that is a potential long-term danger to us. If China is polluting, then eventually that is going to reach our shores.",
"We have to work with them cooperatively to solve their problems as well as ours.",
"We'll also hear about the strategic challenges China presents, its huge military buildup, its enormous appetite for natural resources, its environmental record. And we'll also cover human rights, we hope, and China's growing influence in the world.",
"Given China's size, its muscular manufacturing capabilities, its military buildup, at this point -- and also including its large trade deficit -- at this point, who has more leverage, China or the U.S.?",
"And I'm going to begin with you, Senator Edwards.",
"OBAMA: Well, there are three issues that we have to deal with.",
"Number one, is we've got to get our own fiscal house in order. Our leverage is weakening when we run up enormous deficits funding a war that should have never been authorized. And we then are taking out the credit card with the Chinese. That gives us less leverage.",
"Number two, when I was visiting Africa, I was told by a group of businessmen that the presence of China is only exceeded by the absence of America in the entire African continent. And it indicates the unwillingness of our administration to think strategically about other counties beyond the war on terror.",
"OBAMA: Number three, we have to be tougher negotiators with China. They are not enemies, but they are competitors of ours.",
"And on the economic front, on trade issues, on issues importation, we have not been the best negotiators. And oftentimes, we're negotiating on behalf of Wall Street, as opposed to on behalf of Main Street.",
"OBAMA: Well, right now, the United States is still the dominant superpower in the world. But we have to -- the next president can't be thinking about today; he or she also has to be thinking about 10 years from now, 20 years from now, 50 years from now.",
"And if we continue on current trends without dealing with the problems that we have economically, and unless we are engaging in the world more effectively, then our influence is going to slip.",
"OBAMA: Well, look, I mean, I think Chris and Joe made a good point, which is, we have laws on the books now that aren't being enforced. This is what I mean, in terms of us negotiating more effectively with them.",
"Part of the problem is that the relationship has shifted overtime. Joe is absolutely right that they were much more impoverished 10, 20 years ago.",
"And so, our general attitude was, You know what? What ever they send in, it doesn't really impact us that much and they're a poor country.",
"OBAMA: Things have now shifted, so -- well, I'll just give you an example.",
"I would say toys cannot come in. Food, we will have our own safety inspectors on the ground.",
"Japan does this right now. They set up their own inspection standards in China and they say, Unless you meet our inspection standards, you cannot ship into here.",
"If we don't have labor agreements and environmental agreements that are enforceable, then there are consequences, in terms of them being able to import into this country.",
"The point is is that we have a set of tools available to us that have not been used. And part of the reason is because when we talk about Chinese exports, oftentimes, we are talking about U.S. companies...",
"OBAMA: ... that have moved to China, are manufacturing there and are trying to ship back and they still have influence.",
"OBAMA: And those special interests have to be diminished in their voice in Washington.",
"Senator Edwards?",
"OBAMA: As I said before, the problem is that we are not using the power that we have. And we just had -- I can't amplify this point enough. Right now, laws, with respect to China, are being made in part with the interests of Wall Street in mind and special interests who are manufacturing in China, used to manufacture here in Iowa -- now are manufacturing in China -- are shipping the goods back here and taking advantage of cheap labor and lower environmental standards.",
"We have to have a president -- and this is part of the reason I'm running for president, is to give a voice to American workers. I believe in trade. And I think trade can strengthen America.",
"And I want, by the way, Chinese workers and consumers to benefit. That's good for our long-term security. But I don't want every single trade decision to be looked at through the lens of, does this increase corporate profits, as opposed to, is it good for U.S. consumers and U.S. workers?",
"OBAMA: I actually believe that China will modify its behavior if we actually are tough in our negotiations. Look, we are the biggest market for China. They can't afford to just say, See you later. They're going to have to sell here. If we tell them you have to meet certain safety standards, that you have to enforce certain labor and environmental agreements, they will meet them.",
"Now, could there potentially be some higher costs on the front end? Probably, but I guarantee you, I don't meet a single worker in Iowa who's been laid-off who says, I wouldn't rather pay a little bit more for sneakers at Wal-Mart (NYSE:WMT) but still have a job.",
"QUESTION: As the mom of 1-year-old son, I am very concerned about the toxic chemicals that lace many toys and others products sold in America. These chemical agents cause cancer, birth defects and genetic damage.",
"Unlike the European Union, the U.S. does nothing to limit the use of these agents, and does not require that the toxic ingredients are listed.",
"If you are elected president, what changes will you make to ensure that my son will grow up free from these frightening dangers?",
"Is it possible that the U.S. could overreact to this? I'm posing this to Senator Clinton. What's the danger of that?",
"OBAMA: Well, we have legislation that says that if, in fact, they are manipulating their currency -- and I think there's no dispute that they are -- that we need to take strong action. It's in the Banking Committee. Chris is presiding over that.",
"And now here's the problem. I will say that it's actually a blunt tool. I'd prefer not doing this legislatively. The problem is we've had a president that has shown no leadership on it.",
"So, if and when I am in the White House, I will meet directly with the Chinese leadership and indicate we have to restore balance. And, by the way, we have to mobilize our allies, such as the European Union, to have that conversation with us.",
"This is an imbalance that is not good for any economy over time. It's not sustainable, the trade imbalances that we have.",
"But just to go to a point that was made earlier, so often we see these issues as contradictory.",
"Mike Gravel, I am interested, as I said, in making sure that the Chinese population is fed and clothed and advancing. I think that is important.",
"It is not, I think, in the long-term interests of China to expand, solely on the backs of low-wage work that is undermining U.S. work.",
"If we are saying to China, Raise your labor standards, that will, over time, improve the lot of Chinese workers, as well as U.S. workers. And that's what we should be looking at, is: How can we improve the working conditions, the safety conditions, the consumer protections that are available for all people? And that's not what's happening right now.",
"Senator Biden, very quickly.",
"OBAMA: We do not deputize the American people to do the job that the federal government is supposed to do. So as president of the United States, I will make sure that the federal government does what it's supposed to do, which is to do a better job of closing our borders and preventing hundreds of thousands of people to pour in, have much tougher enforcement standards when it comes to employers, and create a pathway of citizenship for the 12 million people who are already here.",
"OBAMA: The point is that we are not going to have -- we're not going to deputize a whole bunch of American citizens to start grabbing people or turning them in, in part because the ordinary American citizen may not know whether or not this person is illegal or not.",
"Now, we should be holding employers accountable, because they have a mechanism whereby they can actually enforce.",
"But, you know, the notion that we're going to criminalize priests, for example, or doctors who are providing services to individuals, and throw them in jail for doing what their calling asks them to do, which is to provide help and service to people in need, I think that is a mistake. I think that's out of America's character.",
"Senator Dodd, let's say that you're hiring a nanny. Perhaps you've had this experience.",
"OBAMA: Well, look, this requires leadership. I believe that there are circumstances where, in fact, illegal immigrants are driving down wages.",
"The question is: How do we fix it? Because, oftentimes, when it's posed that way, then the thinking is that somehow we have to pit low-wage American workers versus low-wage immigrant workers.",
"My answer is to stop illegal workers from coming in, hold employers accountable, but give the 12 million people who are here illegally, many of whom have been here for years, many of whom have U.S. citizens for children, to make sure that they've got a pathway to legalization.",
"If we do that, then they do have right that they can access.",
"Would you give them rights as they work?",
"OBAMA: No, no, no, no. I think that, if they're illegal, then they should not be able to work in this country. That is part of the principle of comprehensive reform -- that we're going to crack down on employers who are hiring them and taking advantage of them.",
"But I also want to give them a pathway so that they can earn citizenship, earn a legal status, start learning English, pay a significant fine, go to the back of the line, but they can then stay here and they can have the ability to enforce a minimum wage that they're paid, make sure the worker safety laws are available, make sure that they can join a union.",
"OBAMA: You've asked a couple of times, Are you going to crack down on January 1st, 2009?",
"Listen, I will initiate the process immediately. But to get comprehensive reform, to get an employer-verification system that works is going to take some time, just the same way that a pathway to legalization is going to take some time.",
"But what it takes is some leadership. Look, two years ago, I worked with about 10 other senators -- McCain, Kennedy, Graham -- an unlikely group -- Brownback -- and we put together a package that had everything that Senator Clinton and others have talked about.",
"It had some provisions we didn't like in it, but we were able to pass it with a significant majority in the Senate.",
"But what you have not see over the last several years is leadership from the president to change the tone and to describe to the American people how we can be a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants.",
"OBAMA: No. Because there are Spanish-speaking U.S. citizens who may not speak English well, and if they're seeking help, for example, on some vital health care question or a senior citizen who immigrated here a long time ago, and they're trying to get their Social Security check, I don't want them to not be able to get those services.",
"OBAMA: I completely agree with Chris. Look, a Pew study just came out that shows the next generation; children of Spanish speakers, learn English.",
"OBAMA: You know, they're going to do the same thing that every generation did, so we shouldn't worry about this.",
"But on the issue of legal immigration, I think an earlier point was made -- we have a broken legal immigration system that has to be expedited. That's part of the problem that we're seeing, whether it's H1B visas or others. It's too cumbersome, it's often too expensive and unwieldy. That's something I will do as part of comprehensive immigration reform.",
"The gentleman's name is James Irwin. He is a Democrat, by the way.",
"And we asked him, What are some things you want to know from the Democratic presidential candidates? , and this was his choice.",
"QUESTION: What do you think the toughest choice you have left to make is? Is it gay marriage, immigration, the war in Iraq? What haven't you made up you mind on yet, and why haven't you?",
"Senator Clinton, what is something you don't know the answer to?",
"OBAMA: The issue of climate change. I've put forward one of the most aggressive proposals out there. But the science seems to be coming in indicating it's accelerating even more quickly with every passing day, and by the time I take office I think we're going to have to have a serious conversation about how drastic steps we need to take to address it."
