"O'MALLEY: Lester, I [inaudible]",
"O'MALLEY: I have to talk about something that's actually working in our state.",
"O'MALLEY: Andrea — Andrea — Andrea.",
"O'MALLEY: Instead of — Andrea, I think, instead of attacking one another on health care, we should be talking about the things that are actually working.",
"In our state, we have moved to an all-payer system. With the Affordable Care Act, we now have moved all of our acute care hospitals, that driver of cost at the center, away from fee-for- service.",
"And actually to pay, we pay them based on how well they keep patients out of the hospital. How well they keep their patients. That's the future. We need to build on the Affordable Care Act, do the things that work, and reduce costs and increase access.",
"[crosstalk]",
"O'MALLEY: Yes, but senator you never came to campaign for Vincent Sheheen when he was running for governor. In fact, neither of you came to campaign for Vincent Sheheen when he was running for governor. [applause]",
"We can talk all we want about wanting to build a stronger Democratic party, but Lester, the question you answered, it's no laughing matter.",
"The most recurring question I get when I stand on the chair all across Iowa and talk with my neighbors is, how are you going to heal the divisions and the wounds in our country? This is the biggest challenge we face as a people.",
"All my life, I brought people together over deep divides and very old wounds, and that's what we need now in a new leader. We cannot keep talking past each other, declaring all Republicans are our enemies or the war is all about being against millionaires or billionaires, or it's all against American Muslims, all against immigrants.",
"Look, as Frederick Douglas said, we are one, our cause is one, and we must help each other if we are going to succeed.",
"O'MALLEY: I agree with that.",
"O'MALLEY: I agree.",
"O'MALLEY: Say it.",
"O'MALLEY: Andrea...",
"O'MALLEY: Senator, I'm the only person on this stage that's actually balanced a budget every year for 15 years.",
"O'MALLEY: OK. So, that was eight years. Yes. And Senator, but I actually did it during a budget down time — I mean, during a recession.",
"And Andrea, the — I had to make more cuts than any governor in the history of Maryland, but we invested more in infrastructure, more in transportation. We made our public schools more in America more than five years in a row, and went four years in a row without a penny's increase to college tuition.",
"The things that we need to do in our country, like debt-free college in the next five years, like making universal — like making national service a universal option in order to cut youth unemployment in half in the next three years, all these things can be done if we eliminate one entitlement we can no longer afford as a nation.",
"And that is the wealthy among us, those making more than a million dollars, feel that they are entitled to paying a much lower marginal tax rate than was usual for the better part of these 80 years.",
"And if we tax earnings from investments on money — namely capital gains — at the same rate as we tax sweat and hard work and toil, we can make the investments we need to make to make our country better.",
"O'MALLEY: Andrea...",
"O'MALLEY: But in all of that senator and secretary, I think we're leaving out something very important here. And that is that we still don't have the human intelligence: overt, in terms of diplomatic intelligence or covert, to understand even what the heck happens as the secondary and tertiary effects of some of these things.",
"We are walking through this region, Andrea, without the human intelligence that we need. And we need to make a renewed investment as a country in bringing up a new generation of foreign service officers, and bringing up a new generation of business people and actually understanding and having relationships in these places.",
"So we have a better sense of what the heck happens after a dictator topples and can take action to prevent another safe haven and another iteration of terror.",
