"PATAKI: We need an outsider to run our party and to win the next election. Washington has become a corrupt insider game and everybody talks about how they're going to change the taxes, grow the economy. Nothing seems to change.",
"But, by the way, Bobby, I shrunk the size of New York State's government when I left. We had reduced the employment by over 25,000 and cut taxes.",
"But I understand that to change Washington you have to understand government as well. You can't just be an outsider. You can't just be someone who throws stones at Washington. You have to be someone who can actually bring people together across party lines.",
"I can do that, I will do that if I have the chance to lead this party.",
"PATAKI: Becky, can I comment on this question?",
"PATAKI: ...John, can I quickly comment on this one...",
"[crosstalk]",
"PATAKI: ...But, I want to speak on this issue...",
"PATAKI: ...I think it was a bad deal, but I would have voted for it for a very simple reason. Barack Obama is the first president in American history to hold our military hostage. He knew that we needed funding for overseas contingency operations, $40 million dollars that would go to support our troops. And, he was prepared, and had vetoed it, unless this deal went through.",
"I have two sons, they both served overseas. One in Iraq, and one in Afghanistan, and I understand that we have got to do far more to help our military, help our veterans, and help protect our security. This is a bad deal, but to protect our military, I would have signed it. Uh, it's not going to be the case, if I have a chance to lead this country, we're going to reduce the deficit, shrink the government, lower the tax burden and grow the private sector because that's how you solve deficits.",
"PATAKI: Thank you.",
"PATAKI: No, I don't think we need a military response, but we need a coordinated response. And I have to say that I think the Obama administration has been completely lax, to say the least, in dealing with these cyber-attacks, not just by governments like North Korea, but by, particularly, Chinese and other companies.",
"And what I would do is put in place a policy where if we know a company, say, a Chinese company, is hacking into American companies, stealing trade secrets, as we know they do every day, we will retaliate against that company and say that that company's not going to be allowed to continue to do trade with the United States.",
"I would also look at what we're doing at the federal level and put in place what Israel has done: a — one federal agency dealing with cybersecurity and charged with working across silos to make sure we have the best technology.",
"And, Jim, I've gotta tell you something, talking about cybersecurity. Hillary Clinton put a server, an unsecure server, in her home as secretary of state. We have no doubt that that was hacked, and that state secrets are out there to the Iranians, the Russians, the Chinese and others.",
"That alone should disqualify her from being president of the United States. [applause]",
"CRAMER: Senator Graham, you're a hawk. Was that tough enough?",
"PATAKI: I think they have gone too far. I think we've seen Wall Street really blossom and do very well while the rest of the country is struggling, and it's because we have this corrupt connection between Wall Street and Washington.",
"And, John, you were just talking about what loopholes would you get rid of. I would get rid of virtually every single one of them. They cost American taxpayers $1.4 trillion a year. I would throw them all out.",
"PATAKI: No, I wouldn't. I was going to say...",
"PATAKI: ...no, I would keep — first, yes, but what I would do is ii would lower the tax on manufacturing to the lowest in the developed world — 12 percent.",
"We all have plans. I have a plan. We all have plans. My plan, the Tax Foundation said, would create five and a half million new jobs over the next decade.",
"The difference, though, is I will get my plan enacted because, when I was governor of New York, I passed sweeping tax code — cuts in a Democratic state with a Democratic legislature.",
"I — you know, Bobby, you're talking about your tax cuts? I cut taxes more than everybody on this stage, more than everybody on the next stage, combined. By more than the other 49 states, in New York state.",
"I don't just have a plan. I will enact tax cuts, get rid of those loopholes and make the system fairer for all Americans.",
"PATAKI: Thank you.",
"PATAKI: Let me — let me try to get a word in edgewise.",
"PATAKI: In Washington, they talk over each other...",
"UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Each one...",
"[crosstalk]",
"UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Senator, let's — let's have — let Governor Pataki have a chance to speak.",
"PATAKI: Yes. Very simply, you guys talk over each other in Washington all the time. I'm not used to that. I listen when people talk.",
"We have a skills gap. You mentioned the construction company. The construction industry says one of their biggest problems are they can't find the craftsmen to do the work.",
"What we have to...",
"[crosstalk]",
"PATAKI: — do in America is honor blue collar work again. We have to honor the carpenter, the plumber, the electrician, who can actually build something and instead of just saying that a college degree live — delivers prestige, let's celebrate those who do things with their hands and elevate their skills using training in high school and community...",
"PATAKI: — colleges so that we can...",
"PATAKI: — have a better quality workforce that we honor...",
"PATAKI: — as they build America's future.",
"PATAKI: Thank you.",
"PATAKI: Thank you.",
"PATAKI: Hey, Rick.",
"SANTELLI: How are you doing tonight?",
"PATAKI: I'm doing great.",
"SANTELLI: Listen, America's central bank, the Federal Reserve, they've kept interest rates near zero since the 2008 financial crisis.",
"And, by the way, they had a meeting today, you think they raised rates?",
"No.",
"Shocking, isn't it?",
"PATAKI: Not at all.",
"SANTELLI: Listen, it's been a rough ride for American savers and retirees, they really rely on this interest income. And it's been a bonanza for the stock market, a bonanza.",
"And for investors that like the little bit more risk, it's been a bonanza for them as well.",
"So I guess what I'm asking is, do you think this policy is fair and do you support it?",
"PATAKI: No, I don't support it. But let me go back a little bit here. We need to grow our economy faster. We've had the worst economic recovery since the Great Depression. And it's because of policy in Washington and policy at the Fed.",
"And let me go back to Washington. In 2009 —",
"PATAKI: John, no question Barack Obama inherited a economic disaster in 2009.",
"But what did he do?",
"Instead of focusing on pro-growth policies in the economy, he rammed through ObamaCare, the worst law of my lifetime, that hurt small businesses, hurt companies, raised taxes and almost completely eliminated one industry because of its taxes.",
"The Fed had to act. And the Fed did act and appropriately in reducing interest rates but they've reduced them now for seven straight years, that's never happened before. They've been zero for way too long.",
"They should raise the rates; the Fed should get out of manipulating the market and the Fed also, by the way, should reduce its balance sheet, $2.7 trillion. Let some of those bonds mature and put the money back in the banking system so our economy can grow.",
"SANTELLI: Thanks, Governor.",
"Senator Santorum, in the 2012 presidential debate, you were for the export-import bank, which facilitates government funding for U.S. exports. American companies like GE and Boeing are among the beneficiaries.",
"But you said that killing the bank here — and I'm going to quote you — \"is the last thing a true conservative should be doing.\"",
"I don't know, government-backed funding isn't normally what I hear from true conservatives.",
"So why is this situation different?",
"PATAKI: Yeah, absolutely. I — one of the things that troubles me about the Republican Party is too often we question science that everyone accepts. I mean, it's ridiculous that, in the 21st century, we're questioning whether or not vaccines are the appropriate way to go. Of course they are. And it's also not appropriate to think that human activity, putting CO2 into the atmosphere, doesn't make the earth warmer. All things being equal, it does. It's uncontroverted.",
"I think part of the problem is that Republicans think about climate change, say, \"oh my God, we're gonna have higher taxes, more Obama, more big government, the EPA shutting down factories.\"",
"That's not the solution that I see. I want Republicans to embrace innovation and technology. You know, there's one country in the world that has fewer greenhouse gas emissions than the rest of — of the world. You know what that is? The United States.",
"Our emissions are lower than they were in 1995. Not because of a — of a government program, but because of fracking, private sector creation...",
"[crosstalk]",
"PATAKI: ...replace coal plants — government's roles — is to incentivize innovation and the entrepreneurial spirit in America. We could have far more clean energy.",
"We could have next-generation nuclear, thorium reactors that have no risk of meltdown. We could have solar panels on every home that are four times more efficient than today.",
"PATAKI: R&D — R&D credits. Let the private sector do this, develop this innovation. And not only would we solve our problems, we would have clean energy, cheaper energy here.",
"We could export those technologies to places like China and like India so we would grow our economy, have a far greater impact globally, have a secure domestic source of energy, and cleaner, healthier air.",
"That's the solution. Embrace science, embrace innovation and change.",
"PATAKI: The one I use the most is Uber. You know, I used to get driven...[laughter]...when I was governor, I had a driver. I don't anymore, but...[crosstalk]. And it's an example of what millennials are doing to change America for the better. And I tweet a lot, too.",
"So Uber, Tweet — Twitter and then I communicate with my family.",
"PATAKI: I — I am a long suffering Jets fan. So my answer is obviously no, there's no reason to take off the day after the Super Bowl. [applause]",
"But let me just add this. The Mets are going to win tonight. Let's go, Mets.",
"PATAKI: Thank you for the opportunity to be with this great audience tonight.",
"I'm a limited government conservative and I mean by that that not just when it comes to economic issues leaving them to the state, but social issues, as well.",
"And in that I differ from every single other candidate seeking the Republican nomination.",
"I take the Tenth Amendment very, very seriously.",
"I'm a Republican who embraces science and understands we have to work with the next generation of millennials to have the innovation and technology so that we can grow a 21st century economy.",
"And I'm a Republican who understands in Washington, when you're a leader, you have to put aside partisan politics to do what's right for the people.",
"We are one America. If we work together across party lines, there's no problem we can't solve and the 21st century will be America's greatest century.",
"Thank you very much."
