"PATAKI: Thank you, Jake.",
"Hi, I'm George Pataki, and I am honored to be here this afternoon with all of you at the Reagan Library.",
"You know, when I think of Ronald Reagan, I think of his tremendous smile, a smile that reflected his optimism and his unending belief and faith in America and in Americans.",
"And it was that belief in America that led to a great presidency, a presidency that led to decades of safety, security and prosperity for America. That's exactly the type of leadership we need in Washington today and that's why I'm running for President of the United States. Thank you. [applause]",
"PATAKI: No. Hugh, not at all. I have not broken the pledge because Donald Trump is not going to be the Republican nominee, period, flat out, I guarantee you that. I would vote...",
"PATAKI: -- for the Republican nominee...",
"PATAKI: He's not going to be the nominee.",
"PATAKI: He's not going to be the nominee, Hugh. And let me just say one word here. This is an important election with an enormous number of challenges facing the American people. And the first four questions are about Donald Trump.",
"[crosstalk]",
"PATAKI: No, I would not vote for Hillary Clinton.",
"PATAKI: No, I will vote for the Republican nominee. But let me say this flat out, Donald Trump is unfit to be president of the United States or the Republican Party's nominee.",
"Look at what he did in Atlantic City.",
"He says he's going to make America great again?",
"He invested four casinos in Atlantic City and he said, essentially, I'm going to make Atlantic City great again.",
"Every one of those casinos went bankrupt. Over 5,000 Americans lost their job. And you know people who, in this difficult economic time, have lost their job and the pain that causes.",
"He didn't lose anything, 5,000 lost their jobs. He will do for America what he did for Atlantic City and that is not someone we will nominate.",
"PATAKI: Thank you.",
"PATAKI: OK. All right. Thank you.",
"PATAKI: Yeah, it's a small part of a very important issue, and let me comment on what my colleagues were saying here.",
"We all agree you have to secure the border. We have to make sure that people come to America legally. That has got to be step one.",
"Step two is, we have to stop releasing criminals into the communities. If you are charged with a crime as an illegal alien, you should either be in jail or be deported. You should not released, as the Obama administration has done. Of course, we should outlaw sanctuary cities and hold them responsible.",
"But we can't ignore 11 million people who are here. What are we going to do? We're not going to send them back, despite somebody saying we're going to drag kids out of classrooms and send them back.",
"But we have to send a message that we are a nation that depends on the rule of law, and when your first act is to break the law, there has to be a consequence.",
"So what I would do is require those who want to have legal status, not citizenship, come forward, acknowledge they broke the law, and if they do it again, they can be immediately deported, and then do what we do in communities across America when we want to sanction someone...",
"PATAKI: ... and that is community service -- 200 hours working in a hospital...",
"PATAKI: ... working in a school, and then they could have legal...",
"PATAKI: I don't -- I don't think that we should tell that child born in America that we're going to send them back. The way to avoid that is to have an intelligent immigration policy where we know who is coming here, why they are coming here, so we don't have this flood of people coming here for the wrong reasons.",
"PATAKI: We have to deal with the people who are here illegally. We can't just ignore them, or send them back. I think my policy would work to give them legal status, make them a part of an economy that will grow, and help America. TAPPER: I want to turn to another pressing immigration issue. Governor Jindal, over the next year, at least 10,000 Syrian refugees will be allowed to enter the United States. Governor Jindal, you've said it's ridiculous for America to let more refugees in from Syria, and you've expressed concerns about security.",
"Senator Graham says that the United States has a moral obligation to these Syrian refugees. Governor Jindal, does the United States have any obligation to them?",
"PATAKI: Lindsey, let me comment on this.",
"Last week was the anniversary of September 11th and I was governor of New York on September 11th and led us through that horrible day. And I learned that we cannot assume that because radical Islam is a continent away, it doesn't pose a threat to us here in America. It did then, and today, I think, we are at greater risk of an attack than at any time since.",
"We have got to destroy ISIS's ability to attack us here. But it's not 10,000 troops. It's not 20,000 troops. In my view, it's three things. First, we have to directly arm those fighting ISIS on the ground now. The Kurds...",
"PATAKI: Jake...",
"PATAKI: Jake, if I can comment on this. Yes, Kim Davis is different from Islamist radicalists from the Middle East.",
"But on the other hand, we have run rule in America, an elected official can't say I'm not going to follow that law if it conflicts with my beliefs. I think she should have been fired and if she worked for me, I would have fired her. We have to uphold the rule of law. [applause]",
"PATAKI: Imagine one minute -- Jake, imagine one minute that was a Muslim who said I don't believe in gay marriage, and refused to perform that wedding. We wouldn't have had that outrage. There's a place where religion supersedes the rule of law. It's called Iran. It shouldn't be the United States.",
"PATAKI: My response is kind of, \"Wow.\" You know, we're going to have a president who defies the Supreme Court because they don't agree?",
"PATAKI: Then you don't have the rule of law...",
"PATAKI: The -- the elected representatives of the people always have the opportunity to change that law. The Supreme Court makes a determination, but it's ultimately the elected officials who decide whether or not that would be accepted.",
"By the way, if I have a chance to lead this country, I will appoint judges who understand their role. They're not going to be making the law; they're going to be interpreting law that the elected officials passed.",
"PATAKI: But there's a huge difference between an individual standing up and saying I am going to stand for my religious freedom and my religious rights. I applaud that. This is America. You should be able to engage in your religious belief in the way you see fit.",
"But when you are an elected official and you take an oath of office to uphold the law, all the laws, you cannot pick and choose or you no longer have a society that depends on the rule of law. [applause]",
"PATAKI: Yes, I -- I didn't agree with the Supreme Court's decision, but it is the law of this land. And I am a great admirer of Martin Luther King. And he was prepared to break the law. But it wasn't in an office of political power. It was civil disobedience, where what he was willing to do is voluntarily go to jail with his followers to send a message to the elected representatives that these laws were wrong and had to be changed.",
"And because of his courage, we didn't ignore the courts, we changed the laws and made America a better place. That's the way to do it.",
"PATAKI: Yes?",
"PATAKI: I would throw out the entire corrupt tax code. [applause]",
"It's a symbol of the corruption and the power of the lobbyists and the special interests in Washington. It is 74,000 pages of incomprehensible gobbledygook.",
"What I would do is get rid of the 1.4 million every year in exemptions and loopholes, dramatically lower the rates. The normal American person is paying higher taxes than they should because of loopholes, and one of them is that carried interest loophole.",
"I would tax that income the same as ordinary income. I'd lower the rate to 24 percent for all Americans, but I would not give a special break to the Wall Street fat caps -- fat cats.",
"PATAKI: It's hard for me to say I'm with Donald trump on anything, but on this issue, I agree with him. But let me just make one other point.",
"It's not just throwing out the tax code to break the back of the special interests that control Washington. It's other reforms. I would propose a law -- right now there are over 400 former members of the House and Senate who are registered lobbyists in Washington. I would propose a law on day one, you serve one day in the House or Senate, there's a lifetime ban on you ever being a lobbyist in Washington, D.C.",
"You get elected, you go back home. You don't stay and support the special interests. [applause]",
"PATAKI: Can I just...",
"PATAKI: No, I would not. I would keep that deduction. I would lower the rates dramatically, so, yes, that root that has a special carve out would pay more, but everybody else is going to pay less.",
"I would keep the home mortgage deduction, the charitable deduction, and others. And, by the way, you know, I agree with Rick on manufacturing, but my approach is different. I would pass a rate on manufacturing of 12 percent, the lowest in the developed world so we can make this America again. I know how important those jobs are.",
"When I work -- went through college, Christmas and summer vacations, I worked in a factory. My grandparents worked in a factory. We have the opportunity now with lower energy costs, with the world labor cost getting higher, to make things in America so we don't have to worry about China.",
"Lower the tax burden on manufacturing, improve the work skills...",
"PATAKI: ...of Americans. Get rid of job killing regulations. If we're going to...",
"PATAKI: ...If we're going to make this America...",
"PATAKI: Not on the table but I think there's a lot that does work. And that is to have a strong America, a strong military and a resolve where the Iranians know that not only are we going to reject this deal on day one and reimpose sanctions but, if they move forward with the nuclear program, their safety for those facilities will be at risk.",
"I'll tell you a couple of things I'd do. I'd give the Israelis bombs called MOPs, massive ordnance penetrators. Give them to Israel. Let the Iranians know we're prepared to work with Israel to make sure they never have a nuclear weapon.",
"And let me point out that Hillary Clinton, supporting this deal, she was the senator from New York on September 11th, she saw what happened at the hands of radical Islam. This is the senator who did the reset program with Russia, who allowed the Middle East to deteriorate to flames, who has lied about Benghazi and is now supporting the Iranian deal.",
"That's the opponent we're going to have next November. We have got to win this election. Everything we say is wonderful. But we have to win and, once we win, we have to actually do what we say. I can do this.",
"PATAKI: I think there are two things, Jake. Two things that we need as Republicans.",
"First, we have to win the election. You're going to hear a lot of great ideas, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that. None of it matters unless you win the election.",
"And the second is, once you win, you have to be able to govern successfully. You've heard a lot of fighting back and forth, you didn't get this done, you didn't get that done. That's the way Washington is today. You have to have a leader, a president, who will actually get a conservative agenda through.",
"I'm running because I have done both those things, and I did them in one of the most liberal states in America. I got elected three times in the state of New York. Twice by the largest pluralities ever for a Republican. I ran as a Republican conservative.",
"If I get the nomination, I will be able to get broad support and win this election, and take the White House back for our party. But more importantly, once I've won, I will put in place a sweeping conservative agenda. I did that in New York.",
"Over $143 billion in tax cuts. More than the other 49 states combined. Taking one million people off welfare and putting them into jobs, in a state where the Democrats control the state assembly.",
"PATAKI: 103-47. I got them to support a conservative agenda. If I get elected president, I will make things work in Washington.",
"PATAKI: For the Republican party and for the United States. [applause]"
