"Paul: Well, it all depends on what you mean by \"all of this.\" the CFR exists, the Trilateral Commission exists. And it's a, quote, \"conspiracy of ideas.\" This is an ideological battle. Some people believe in globalism. Others of us believe in national sovereignty.",
"And there is a move on toward a North American union, just like early on there was a move on for a European Union, and it eventually ended up.",
"And there is a move on toward a North American Union, just like early on there was a move on for a European Union, and eventually ended up. So we had NAFTA and moving toward a NAFTA highway. These are real things. It's not somebody made these up. It's not a conspiracy. They don't talk about it, and they might not admit about it, but there's been money spent on it. There was legislation passed in the Texas legislature unanimously to put a halt on it. They're planning on millions of acres taken by eminent domain for an international highway from Mexico to Canada, which is going to make the immigration problem that much worse.",
"So it's not so much a secretive conspiracy, it's a contest between ideologies, whether we believe in our institutions here, our national sovereignty, our Constitution, or are we going to further move into the direction of international government, more U.N.",
"You know, this country goes to war under U.N. resolutions. I don't like big government in Washington, so I don't like this trend toward international government. We have a WTO that wants to control our drug industry, our nutritional products. So, I'm against all that.",
"But it's not so much as a sinister conspiracy. It's just knowledge is out there. If we look for it, you'll realize that our national sovereignty is under threat.",
"Paul: Yes, and I would like to state that, to the statement earlier made that we all went to Washington to change Washington and Washington changed us, I don't think that applies to me; Washington did not change me.",
"(Applause)",
"I would like to change Washington, and we could by cutting three programs, such as the Department of Education -- Ronald Reagan used to talk about that -- Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security is the biggest bureaucracy we ever had.",
"(Applause)",
"And besides, what we can do is we can have a stronger national defense by changing our foreign policy. Our foreign policy is costing us a trillion dollars, and we can spend most of that or a lot of that money home if we would bring our troops home.",
"(Applause)",
"Paul: Absolutely. The real question you have to ask is why do I get the most money from active duty officers and military personnel?",
"(Applause)",
"What John is saying is just totally distorted.",
"(Protester shouts off-mike)",
"Paul: He doesn't even understand the difference between non- intervention and isolationism. I am talking isolationism. I am isolationist. I want to trade with people, talk with people, travel. But I don't want to send troops overseas using force to tell them how to live. We would object to it here and they're going to object to us over there.",
"(Applause)",
"Paul: I have never voted for a tax increase; never will. But the tax issue is only one-half of it.",
"You can easily pledge not to raise taxes, but you have to cut spending.",
"(Applause)",
"Paul: You know, it's not a federal function to determine the penalties for a crime of abortion if it's illegal in a state. It's up to the state, it's up to the juries. And it should be up to discretion because it's not an easy issue to deal with. But the first thing we have to do is get the federal government out of it. We don't need a federal abortion police. That's the last thing that we need.",
"(Applause)",
"But for the ...",
"Paul: Pardon me?",
"Paul: I don't personally think so. I'm an O.B. doctor, and I practiced medicine for 30 years, and I of course never saw one time when a medically necessary abortion had to be done.",
"But so I think it certainly is a crime. But I also understand the difficulties. I think when you're talking about third trimester deliberate abortion and partial birth abortions, I mean, there has to be a criminal penalty for the person that's committing that crime. But I really think it's the person who commits the crime. And I think that is the abortionist.",
"Paul: Well, I think it's up to the states. I'm not in the state -- I'm not running for governor. And I think it's different, and I don't think it should be all 50 states the same way. So, I don't think that should be up to the president to decide that.",
"Paul: The best commitment we can make to the Iraqi people is to give them their country back. That's the most important thing that we can do.",
"(Applause)",
"Already, part of their country has been taken back. In the south, they claim the surge has worked, but the surge really hasn't worked. There's less violence, but al-Sadr has essentially won in the south.",
"The British are leaving. The brigade of Al Sadr now is in charge, so they are getting their country back. They're in charge up north -- the Shia -- the people in the north are in charge, as well, and there's no violence up there or nearly as much.",
"So, let the people have their country back again. Just think of the cleaning up of the mess after we left Vietnam. Vietnam now is a friend of ours -- we trade with them, the president comes here.",
"What we achieved in peace was unachievable in 20 years of the French and the Americans being in Vietnam.",
"So it's time for us to take care of America first.",
"(Applause)",
"Paul: Shortly after the Vietnam War ended, Colonel Tu and Colonel Summers met, and they were talking about this. And our -- and the American colonel said, \"You know, we never lost one battle.\" And Colonel Tu, the Vietnamese says, \"Yes, but that's irrelevant.\"",
"And it is irrelevant. But we have to realize why they want to come here. Wolfowitz even admitted that one of the major reasons that the Al Qaida was organized and energized was because of our military base in Saudi Arabia.",
"He says, \"Oh, now, we can take the base away.\" He understood why they came here. They come here because we're occupying their country, just as we would object if they occupied our country.",
"(Audience booing)",
"Paul: The people are sick and tired of what they're getting, and they want some real changes.",
"I don't want to run your life. We need less taxation, less regulations, a better economic system.",
"We were not meant to be an empire; we were meant to be a republic, protecting liberty here at home.",
"It's up to you to spread this message around this country. This is an American cause, it's a cause of freedom. There's something going on in this country, and it stinks. It really stinks.",
"(End videotape)",
"Paul: The infrastructure problem in this country is very, very serious. We as Americans are taxed to blow up the bridges overseas. We're taxed to go over and rebuild the bridges overseas while our bridges are falling down in this country.",
"This country is going bankrupt, and we can't afford this. We need to take care of ourselves. We do not need to sacrifice one thing more. We just need to take care of ourselves and get the government out of our lives and off our back and out of our wallets.",
"(Applause)",
"Paul: Now that's what I call a tough question, because I have no intention of doing this.",
"I am a Republican. I have won 10 times as a Republican and we're doing quite well. We had 5,000 people show up at a rally in front of the Independence Hall with blacks and Hispanics and a cross-section of this country.",
"You know that we raised $4.3 million in one day?",
"(Applause)",
"Without spending one cent. We didn't even pay an individual to go out and they weren't professional fund-raisers. It came in here -- it was automatic.",
"We're struggling to figure out how to spend the money. This is country is in a revolution. They're sick and tired of what they're getting. And I happen to be lucky enough to be part of it."
