"PAUL: One thing I might -- might say is, we have made some inroads on the Federal Reserve. We passed a bill last year. We got a partial, you know, audit of the Fed. We've learned a whole lot. They were dealing in $15 trillion; $5 trillion went overseas to bail out foreign banks.",
"But you know what? Congress did a lot. I've worked on it for a good many years. But Bloomberg helped and Fox helped. They had court cases, Freedom of Information Act. And there are some even at this table who didn't think auditing the Fed was such a good idea, that we could call up the Fed and ask them and they would tell us what they're doing. I've been calling them up for 30 years and they never tell me.",
"[laughter]",
"But we're getting to the bottom of it. But if you want to understand why we have a problem, you have to understand the Fed, because the cause comes from the business cycle. We shouldn't be asking what to do exactly with the recession -- obviously, we have to deal with that -- but you can't solve -- you can't cure the disease if you don't know the cause of it.",
"And the cause is the booms. When there are booms and they're artificial, whether it's the CRA or whether it's the Fed, easy credit, when you have bubbles, whether it's the Nasdaq or whether it's the housing bubbles, they burst. And when they do, you have to have corrections. And that's what we're dealing with. And we can do this by building coalitions and not sacrificing any principles.",
"PAUL: Absolutely. I mean, there's no need to. Look at...",
"PAUL: The -- no. You -- that's where the distortions come. That's where the moral hazard comes from. That's where the malinvestment, overbuild.",
"It was predictable. You talked about what economists we should look to. And, unfortunately, we've been living with Keynesian economics for many, many decades. And everybody who was right about predicting the bubbles were Austrian economists. They said they were coming. And yet they're also saying -- and I agree with them -- that everything that we're doing right now is wrong.",
"So what we did with the housing bubble, yes, we had too many houses. It was glaring in our face. The bubble was doomed to burst, and it came because of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, easy credit, and also Community Reinvestment Act.",
"So who -- who got into trouble? The people who did the speculating, the Wall Street, the derivatives market? They got the bailout. They got [inaudible] so what happened to the middle class? They lost their jobs. They lost their houses.",
"This whole system is all messed up. And you're -- what I hear here is just tinkering with the current system and not looking at something new and different, and it's a free-market economy without a Federal Reserve system, with sound money. If you don't have that, you're going to continue with the bubble.",
"And this propping up this debt and keeping the correction, you need the correction. You need to get rid of the malinvestment and the debt.",
"PAUL: The debt is the burden on the economy.",
"PAUL: Since the Federal Reserve is the engine of inflation, creates the business cycle, produces are recessions and our depressions, the Federal Reserve obviously is a very important issue. And fortunately, tonight we have a former director of the Federal Reserve at Kansas City. So I have a question for Mr. Cain.",
"Mr. Cain, in the past you have been rather critical of any of us who would want to audit the Fed. You have said -- you've used pretty strong terms, that we were ignorant and that we didn't know what we are doing, and therefore, there was no need for an audit anyway, because if you had one, you're not going to find out anything, because everybody knows everything about the Fed.",
"But now that we have found and we have gotten an audit, we have found out an awful lot on how special businesses get bailed out -- Wall Street, the banks, and special companies, foreign governments. And you said that you advise those of us who were concerned, and you belittled -- you say call up the Federal Reserve and just ask them.",
"PAUL: Do you still stick by this, that that this is frivolous, or do you think it's very important? Sixty-four percent of the American people want a full audit of the Fed on a regular basis.",
"PAUL: I'll get it for you.",
"PAUL: Spoken like a true insider.",
"No, Alan Greenspan was a disaster.",
"[laughter]",
"[applause]",
"Everybody in Washington -- liberals and conservatives -- said he kept interest rates too low, too long. Of course, the solution was, lower them even more, and they think that's going to solve our problem.",
"But if I had to name one person that did a little bit of good, that was Paul Volcker. He at least knew how to end -- or help, you know, end the inflation.",
"But, of course, with my position that I don't think highly of the Federal Reserve, I think we should have sound money and we shouldn't have somebody deciding what the interest rate should be and how much money supply we should have, I mean, nobody satisfies me.",
"But certainly, Alan Greenspan has ushered in the biggest bubble. And what did we do? We've continued the same thing, doing the same thing. We think the inflation under Alan Greenspan was bad so we're trying to solve the problem by inflating even further. So Bernanke compounds the problem. He's inflating twice as fast as -- as Greenspan was.",
"But Greenspan caused so much trouble. And he used to believe in the gold standard. I think he's coming around to that. Before he retires, he'll write his -- his biography and explain why he's coming back to the gold standard.",
"PAUL: I just want to add one quick thing. Dodd-Frank obviously is a disaster. It's estimated it's going to cost a trillion dollars.",
"I think one the reasons we're not getting anywhere and we're not getting anywhere in Washington, it's a partisan fight. It's a fight over power, because Sarbanes-Oxley, which was done by the Republicans, it cost a trillion dollars, too.",
"Let's repeal that, too. I mean, if you look at what we have done as Republicans, we have caused a lot of problems.",
"To say it's all in these past two years, I mean, I think that is so misleading. And that's why the American people are sick and tired of listening to the politicians.",
"PAUL: My motivation, my goal has always been to promote liberty, believing that's what made America great. If we want prosperity, if we want peace, we understand what the cause of liberty is all about, and we have to understand that a free-market system and sound money gives us the prosperity.",
"And it also is the humanitarian program, because once you get into the welfare state and the socialist state, it all backfires. So if you care about people, you believe in liberty, that's what made America great. That's what I want to restore."
