"PAUL: You know, I think this whole discussion so far has been very superficial. And I think the question in the way that you ask it is superficial and you're talking about character, which is very important. But I feel we should deal with the issues as well. And I don't see how we can do well against Obama if we have any candidate that, you know, endorsed, you know, single payer systems and TARP bailouts and don't challenge the Federal Reserve's $15 trillion of injection bailing out their friends.",
"I don't see how we can have anybody really compete with Obama who doesn't challenge this huge empire we have overseas and the overseas spending. I mean this is how nations come down. You see they extend themselves too far overseas. That's how the Soviets came down. We -- we really have to talk about real cuts. We haven't gotten around to this yet.",
"So if we want to change things, this is what we have to talk about. Character is important and motivation is important, our history is important. But I really consider that, in the debate format, to be less significant than what we really believe in.",
"PAUL: You know that demonstrates how out of touch the U.S. government and the U.S. Congress is with the American people. Because I'm supporting things that help the American people. [applause]",
"That's the disgust that people have. Is because they keep growing government. Whether it's the Republicans in charge or the Democrats in -- in charge. But as far as working with other groups, I think my record is about as good as anybody's because I work on the principle that freedom and the Constitution bring people together, for different reasons. People use freedom in different ways like it does. It invites variations in our religious beliefs and economic beliefs.",
"We tell people that they're allowed to, you know, spend their money as they choose. On civil liberties, that's a different segment. Republican conservatives aren't all that well known for protecting privacy and personal liberties. When it comes to this spending overseas, I can work a coalition. Matter of fact, my trillion dollar proposal to cut spending, doesn't immediately deal with Social Security, it's to try to work our way out of Social Security.",
"I'm cutting a trillion dollars by attacking overseas spending and going back to ‘06 budget. And I do not believe that you have to have -- people who have gotten special privileges and bailouts from the government, they may get the pain, but the American people, they get their freedom back and get no income back, they don't suffer any pain.",
"PAUL: It's not exactly a simple task to repeal approximately 100 years of us sliding away from our republic and still running a foreign policy of Woodrow Wilson, trying to make the world safe for democracy. And, look, we have elections overseas and we don't even accept the elections.",
"No, changing foreign policy is significant, but that's where a nation will come down if they keep doing this. We can't stay in 130 countries, get involved in nation-building. We cannot have 900 bases overseas. We have to change policy.",
"What about changing monetary policy? Yes, we do. But we've had that for 100 years. And right now, we're winning that battle. The American people now agree. About 75 percent of the American people now say we ought to audit the Federal Reserve, find out what they're doing, and who are their friends that they're bailing out constantly? [applause]",
"PAUL: Right.",
"DISTASOS: Is this something that fits in un -- under your view of -- of what government does do or should not do?",
"PAUL: Well, subsidies per se are -- it's bad economic policy. It's bad moral policy, because it's using government force to transfer money from one group to another. And economically, it does a lot of harm.",
"But when it -- when it comes to energy, we should, you know, deregulate it, like others talk about.",
"But we need to talk -- you know supply and demand -- everybody knows about supply and demand. They talk about oil and if we had more alternative sources, that we -- we always hope the prices will go down.",
"But everybody forgets that there's another 50 percent of a transaction is the monetary unit and you don't deal, very few people talk about the supply and demand of money.",
"And when you create a lot of money, prices go up. So it goes up in the areas where government most gets involved, you know, in education and medical care, housing and in energy.",
"So prices go up much faster than in any other place. So if you subsidize somebody and you print money to do it, you compound the problem.",
"It's good politics. Yes, I'm going to subsidize you and take care of you. But it's bad economic policy and it -- it's not a good way to find -- find any answers.",
"DISTASOS: Gov -- Governor Romney, this is such an important topic, because beyond the -- the regional implication, there's also a larger question about the social safety net. You think all the time about opportunity for Americans.",
"But what about Americans left behind?",
"In this age of austerity, what do Americans have to learn to live with less of?",
"PAUL: Entitlements are not rights. Right mean you have a right...[applause]...rights mean you have a right to your life. You have a right to -- to your liberty and you should have a right to keep the fruits of your labor. And this is quite a bit different, but earlier on there was a little discussion here about gay rights. I in a way don't like to use those terms, gay rights, woman's rights, minority rights, religious rights. There's only one type of right. It's the right to your liberty. And I think this causes divisiveness when we see people in groups, because for too long we punish groups. So the answer then was, let's -- let's relieve them by giving them affirmative action.",
"So I think both are wrong. If you think in terms of individuals and protect every single individuals, no, they're not entitled. One group isn't entitled to take something from somebody else. And the basic problem here is, there's a lot of good intention to help poor people, but guess who gets the entitlements in Washington? The big guys get -- the rich people. They run the entitlement system, the military industrial complex, the banking system. Those are the entitlements we should be dealing with.",
"PAUL: I would continue to do what I'm doing now, preaching the gospel of liberty. I think that the most important ingredients in this country that made us great was our founders understood what liberty meant. And that is what we need. We have deserted that. We have drifted a long way. It involves our right to our life, right to our liberty. We ought to be able to keep the fruits of our labor. We ought to understand property rights. We ought to understand contract rights. We ought to understand what sound money is all about, and we ought to understand what national defense means. That means defending this country. That is the bully pulpit we need. We need to defend liberty.",
"PAUL: And liberty. [laughter]"
