"PAUL: This is what's wrong!",
"PAUL: I mean, this is what's wrong. He buys and sells politicians of all stripes, he's already...",
"PAUL: Hey, look, look! He's already hedging his bet on the Clintons, OK? So if he doesn't run as a Republican, maybe he supports Clinton, or maybe he runs as an independent...",
"PAUL: ...but I'd say that he's already hedging his bets because he's used to buying politicians.",
"TRUMP: Well, I've given him plenty of money.",
"PAUL: First of all, only ISIS is responsible for the terrorism. Only ISIS is responsible for the depravity. But, we do have to examine, how are we going to defeat ISIS?",
"I've got a proposal. I'm the leading voice in America for not arming the allies of ISIS. [applause] I've been fighting amidst a lot of opposition from both Hillary Clinton, as well as some Republicans who wanted to send arms to the allies of ISIS. ISIS rides around in a billion dollars worth of U.S. Humvees. It's a disgrace. We've got to stop -- we shouldn't fund our enemies, for goodness sakes. So, we didn't create ISIS -- ISIS created themselves, but we will stop them, and one of the ways we stop them is by not funding them, and not arming them. [applause]",
"PAUL: Megyn, may I respond? [applause] May I respond?",
"PAUL: I want to collect more records from terrorists, but less records from innocent Americans. The Fourth Amendment was what we fought the Revolution over! John Adams said it was the spark that led to our war for independence, and I'm proud of standing for the Bill of Rights, and I will continue to stand for the Bill of Rights. [applause]",
"PAUL: Use the Fourth Amendment!",
"PAUL: Use the Fourth Amendment!",
"PAUL: Get a warrant!",
"PAUL: Get a judge to sign the warrant!",
"PAUL: See, here's the problem.",
"PAUL: Here's the problem, governor. Here's the problem, governor. You fundamentally misunderstand the Bill of Rights.",
"Every time you did a case, you got a warrant from a judge. I'm talking about searches without warrants...",
"PAUL: ...indiscriminately, of all Americans' records, and that's what I fought to end.",
"I don't trust President Obama with our records. I know you gave him a big hug, and if you want to give him a big hug again, go right ahead. [applause]",
"PAUL: I've got a news flash...",
"PAUL: News flash, the Republican Party's been fighting against a single-payer system...",
"PAUL: -- for a decade. So I think you're on the wrong side of this if you're still arguing for a single-payer system.",
"TRUMP: I'm not -- I'm not are -- I don't think you heard me. You're having a hard time tonight.",
"PAUL: I oppose the Iranian deal, and will vote against it. I don't think that the president negotiated from a position of strength, but I don't immediately discount negotiations.",
"I'm a Reagan conservative. Reagan did negotiate with the Soviets. But you have to negotiate from a position of strength, and I think President Obama gave away too much, too early.",
"If there's going to be a negotiation, you're going to have to believe somehow that the Iranians are going to comply. And I asked this question to John Kerry, I said \"do you believe they're trustworthy?\" and he said \"No.\"",
"And I said, \"well, how are we gonna get them to comply?\" I would have never released the sanctions before there was consistent evidence of compliance.",
"PAUL: Look, I don't want my marriage or my guns registered in Washington. And if people have an opinion, it's a religious opinion that is heartly felt, obviously they should be allowed to practice that and no government should interfere with them. One of the things, one of the things that really got to me was the thing in Houston where you had the government, the mayor actually, trying to get the sermons of ministers. When the government tries to invade the church to enforce its own opinion on marriage, that's when it's time to resist.",
"PAUL: Well, let's be clear, I'm the only one on the stage who actually has a five-year budget that balances. I've put pencil to paper...",
"PAUL: ... and I've said -- and I've said I would cut spending, and I've said exactly where. Each one of my budgets has taken a meat axe to foreign aid, because I think we ought to quit sending it to countries that hate us. [applause]",
"I think we ought to quit sending it to countries that burn our flag. Israel is not one of those. But even Benjamin Netanyahu said that ultimately, they will be stronger when they're independent. My position is exactly the same.",
"We shouldn't borrow money from China to send it anywhere, but why don't we start with eliminating aid to our enemies.",
"PAUL: I still say exactly what my original opinion is. Do you borrow money from China to send it to anyone? Out of your surplus, you can help your allies, and Israel is a great ally. And this is no particular animus of Israel, but what I will say, and I will say over and over again, we cannot give away money we don't have.",
"We do not project power from bankruptcy court. We're borrowing a million dollars a minute. [applause]",
"It's got to stop somewhere.",
"PAUL: I'm a different kind of Republican. I've introduced a five-year balanced budget. I've introduced the largest tax cut in our history. I stood for ten and a half hours on the Senate floor to defend your right to be left alone. [applause]",
"But I've also gone to Chicago. I've gone to Detroit. I've been to Ferguson, I've been to Baltimore, because I want our party to be bigger, better and bolder, and I'm the only one that leads Hillary Clinton in five states that were won by President Obama. I'm a different kind of Republican. [applause]"
