"PAUL: I'm Congressman Ron Paul, a congressman from Texas.",
"I am the defender of the Constitution. I'm the champion of liberty. This shows the roadmap to peace and prosperity. [applause]",
"PAUL: Because he's a fake. [laughter] [applause] [booing] [applause]",
"PAUL: Congratulations.",
"PAUL: No. I find it really fascinating that, when people are running for office, they're really fiscally conservative. When they're in office, they do something different. And then when they explain themselves, they say, \"Oh, I want to repeal that.\"",
"So the senator voted for No Child Left Behind, but now — he voted for it, but now he's running on the effort to get rid of it. So I think the record is so bad, you know, with the politicians.",
"And, you know, nobody accuses me of not having voted for too much. They're always accusing me for not voting for enough. And I've been running in office, in office off and on for a good many years, and over all those years, I've never voted for a budget deficit. I never voted to increase the national debt.",
"As a matter of fact, there's only one appropriation bill I voted for, and that was for veterans. I assumed, from the 1970s on, that we were embarking on a very dangerous path, and we're involved in that danger right now.",
"So this idea of being fiscally conservative now that we're running for office and we're going to repeal something that we did before, I mean, this — it loses credibility is what our problem is. So... [applause] And — and the one thing that I think should annoy all Americans is the voting for foreign aid? I mean, just think there are foreign aid packages that are huge, and when the member votes for it, they don't say, well, this money is going to A, B, C, because I love that country, but it's the principle of the way the government works. You vote for foreign aid because, for some weird reason, it's supposed to be good for America, but then it goes and helps all our enemies. That's what I disapprove of. [applause]",
"PAUL: You know, that's always a cop-out when you compare yourself to the other members of Congress. The American people are sick and tired of the members of Congress. They get about a 9 percent rating. [applause]",
"But this whole thing about comparison of conservative votes, I think you make a very important point. I don't rate what, at the top. If it's spending or on taxes I'm at the very top because I vote for the least amount of spending and the least amount of taxes, which means that some of the conservative ratings — you have to realize sometimes conservatives want to spend money, too.",
"When it comes to overseas spending, you vote for the foreign aid. Conservatives are quite pleased with spending money overseas. But if you're a strict fiscal conservative and a constitutionalist you don't vote for that kind of stuff and so you can't just go by the ratings.",
"PAUL: I followed that and I...[laughter]",
"You know, there's reason for the confusion, because...[laughter]... because it's all Congress's fault. They're all messed up and they don't know what they're doing in Congress is the real reason. [applause]",
"But this whole idea of earmarking — earmarking is designating how the money's spent. What a lot of people don't understand is if — if the Congress doesn't say the way the money should be spent, it goes to the executive branch, and that's the bad part. If you were actually cutting, it would make a difference. But you don't want to give more power to the executive branch.",
"Even if I'm president, I don't want more power over that — over that funding. That should be with the people and — and with the Congress. But earmarking — the reason we get into trouble is — is the irresponsibility of Congress.",
"Take your highway funds. We're supposed to pay a user fee. If we pay our gasoline tax, we should get our fair share back. But what do they do? They take the highway funds and other of these trust funds and they spend this money overseas in these wars that we shouldn't be fighting. And then when the highways need building, then you have to go and fight the political system and know who to deal with and maneuver and try to get some of your money back.",
"But if you say you're against — against the earmarking and fuss and fume over, the answer is vote against the bill. That is what I do. I argue for the case of the responsibility being on the Congress, but it's the responsibility of us who believe in fiscal conservatism to vote against the bill. We need to vote against the spending is what we need to do. [applause]",
"PAUL: Well, you know, it's interesting when they argue that case.",
"First, I don't like the idea that you have good bailouts and bad bailouts. If bailouts are bad, they're bad, and we shouldn't be doing it.",
"But this argument about maybe one that works, you know, well, now that the bankruptcy or the bailing out of GM worked, I said that's sort of like if a criminal goes out and robs a bank, and he's successful, therefore you endorse what he did, because he's successful. But you have to rob people, you have to distort the law.",
"The government is supposed to protect contracts. They're not supposed to regulate contracts and they're not supposed to undermine contracts. And that's what we've been doing. [applause]",
"In the housing bubble, we undermined contracts. And this is what we're doing here. So you want to respect the contracts.",
"A lot of people will accuse me of advocating a free market, that there's no regulations. Actually, the regulations are tougher, because you have to go through bankruptcy and you have to face up to this.",
"And it isn't like General Motors would be destroyed. Newt made that point there, that there were good parts of General Motors. But politicians can't figure this out. Then they serve the special interests, and then you have labor fighting big business.",
"I opt for the free market in defense of liberty. That's what we need in this country. [applause]",
"PAUL: As an OB doctor, I've dealt with birth control pills and contraception for a long time. This is a consequences of the fact the government has control of medical care and medical insurance, and then we fight over how we dictate how this should be distributed, sort of like in schools. Once the government takes over the schools, especially at the federal level, then there's no right position, and you have to argue which prayer, are you allowed to pray, and you get into all the details.",
"The problem is the government is getting involved in things they shouldn't be involved in, especially at the federal level. [applause]",
"But sort of along the line of the pills creating immorality, I don't see it that way. I think the immorality creates the problem of wanting to use the pills. So you don't blame the pills.",
"I think it's sort of like the argument — conservatives use the argument all the time about guns. Guns don't kill, criminals kill. [applause]",
"So, in a way, it's the morality of society that we have to deal with. The pill is there and, you know, it contributes, maybe, but the pills can't be blamed for the immorality of our society. [applause]",
"PAUL: John...[applause]",
"PAUL: ... have a quick follow-up? [applause]",
"You know, we talk about the morning-after pill. Actually, the morning-after pill is nothing more than a birth control pill, so if birth control pills are on the market, the morning-after pill — so if you're going to legalize birth control pills, you really — you can't separate the two. They're all basically the same, hormonally.",
"But once again, the question is, if you voted for Planned Parenthood like the senator has, you voted for birth control pills. And you literally, because funds are fungible, you literally vote for abortions because Planned Parenthood gets the money — \"Oh, I'll buy birth control pills,\" but then they have the money left over to do the abortion.",
"So that's why you have to have a pretty strong resistance of voting for these bunches of bills put together. Planned Parenthood should get nothing, let alone designate how they spend. [applause]",
"PAUL: John, this demonstrates the problem that I'm talking about. There's always an excuse to do this. Now...[applause]... Title XX — I don't know whether you inferred that I would support Title XX for abstinence. No, it would cost money as a program. It's not a program of the federal government to get involved in our lives this way. If you want laws like that, maybe the state, but...[applause]... the federal government shouldn't even be having — spending money on abstinence. That's way too much more. I don't see that in the Constitution any... [crosstalk]",
"PAUL: Probably not, but we can do a better job, and the best way to do it is forget about the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan and deal with our borders, put our resources on this border. This is what we need. But we need to change the rules. We reward illegal immigration. They get benefits, Texas hospitals, and, you know, schools are going bankrupt.",
"The restraints on the states, and Obama's restraints on the states to deal with it. Why is it if an illegal comes across the border and they go on private property, why isn't that trespassing? And why don't you have the right to stop it? So but there should be no mandates from the federal government about what you must do under the 9th and 10th. There would be essentially none.",
"But the federal government does have a responsibility for these borders. And I just hate to see all these resources — I think that we should have much more immigration service on the border to make it easier — it's hard to even get to visit this country. We're losing a lot of visitors and workers that could come to this country because we have an inefficient immigration service.",
"And then that invites the illegal. We have to deal — we can't endorse the illegal, but the program today endorses the illegal problems. And a weak economy is always detrimental, too, because of the welfare state. We have welfare at home and some jobs go begging, we have jobs going begging in this country in the midst of the recession, has to do with the economy.",
"You can't ignore the economy. But also the welfare state, allowing immigrants to come over and then get the benefits — if you subsidize something, you get more of. So there's a lot we can do and should do and certainly this president is not doing a very good job. [applause]",
"PAUL: The problem is the character of our wars. And I don't like to think of people in groups. Individuals have rights, not groups. You don't have women's rights or men's rights.",
"And we still have draft legislation. What I fear is the draft coming back because we're getting way over-involved. And the draft — we keep registering our 18-year-olds. So when the draft comes, we're going to be registering young women, and because of this they're going to be equal.",
"Now, the wars we fight aren't defensive wars, they're offensive wars. We're involved in way too much.",
"They're undeclared, they're not declared by the Congress, and so we're in wars that shouldn't be involved. So I don't want even the men to be over there. I don't want women being killed, but I don't want the men being killed in these wars. [applause]",
"But because now we have accepted now for 10 years that we're allowed to start war, we call pre-emptive war, preventive war. Well, that's an aggressive war.",
"I believe in the Christian just war theory that you have to morally justify the wars in defense. Now, if we're defending our country — and we need to defend, believe me — with men and women will be in combat and defending our country, and that's the way it should be. But when it's an offensive war, going where we shouldn't be, that's quite a bit different. So it's the foreign policy that needs to be examined.",
"PAUL: I disagree because we don't know if they have a weapon. As a matter of fact, there's no evidence that they have it. There is no evidence.",
"Israel claims they do not have it and our government doesn't. I don't want them to get a weapon. But I think what we're doing is encouraging them to have a weapon because they feel threatened. If you look at a map of — if you look at a map of Iran, we have 45 bases around their country, plus our submarines.",
"The Iranians can't possibly attack anybody. And we're worrying about the possibility of one nuclear weapon. Now, just think about the Cold War. The Soviets had 30,000 of them. And we talked to them. The Soviets killed 100 million people and the Chinese, and we worked our way out of it.",
"And if you want to worry about nuclear weapons, worry about the nuclear weapons that were left over from the Soviet Union. They're still floating around. They don't have them all detailed. So we're ready to go to war. I say going to war rapidly like this is risky and it's reckless.",
"Now, if they are so determined to go to war, the only thing I plead with you for, if this is the case, is do it properly. Ask the people and ask the Congress for a declaration of war. This is war and people are going to die. And you have got to get a declaration of war.",
"And just to go and start fighting — but the sanctions are already backfiring. And all that we do is literally doing the opposite. When we've been — were attacked, we all came together. When we attacked the — when we — when we put them under attack, they get together and it neutralizes that. They rally around their leaders.",
"So what we're doing is literally enhancing their power. Think of the sanctions we dealt with Castro. Fifty years and Castro is still there. It doesn't work. So I would say a different approach. We need to at least — we talked — we talked to the Soviets during the Cuban crisis. We at least can talk to somebody who does not — we do not have proof that he has a weapon. Why go to war so carelessly?",
"PAUL: John?",
"PAUL: No, I get a minute to go quickly. [applause]",
"You know, I — I've tried the moral argument. I've tried the constitutional argument on these issues. And they don't — they don't go so well. But there — there's an economic argument, as well.",
"As a matter of fact, Al Qaida has had a plan to bog us down in the Middle East and bankrupt this country. That's exactly what they're doing. We've spent $4 trillion of debt in the last 10 years being bogged down in the Middle East.",
"The neoconservatives who now want us to be in Syria, want us to go to Iran, have another war, and we don't have the money. We're already — today gasoline hit $6 a gallon in Florida. And we don't have the money.",
"So I don't believe I'm going to get the conversion on the moral and the constitutional arguments in the near future. But I'll tell you what, I'm going to win this argument for economic reasons. Just remember, when the Soviets left, they left not because we had to fight them. They left because they bankrupted this country and we better wake up, because that is what we're doing here. We're destroying our currency and we have a financial crisis on our hands. [applause]",
"PAUL: Newt — Newt's going in the right direction, but not far enough. [laughter]",
"The Constitution is very, very clear. There is no authority for the federal government to be involved in education. [applause]",
"There's no — no prohibition in the Constitution for the states to be involved in education. That's not a bad position and we can sort things out. But once — once again the Senators for — was for No Child Left Behind, but now he's running for president, now he's running to repeal No Child Left Behind once again. But — and he calls it a team sport. He has to go along to get along and that's the way the team plays. But that's what the problem is with Washington. That's what's been going on for so long. [applause]",
"So, I don't accept that form of government. I understand it. That is the way it works. You were with the majority. You were the Whip and you organized and got these votes all passed. But I think the obligation of all of us should be the oath of office. We should take — and it shouldn't be the oath to the party. I'm sorry about that, but it isn't the oath to the party, it's the oath to our office. [applause]",
"To obey the law and the law is the Constitution. [applause]",
"PAUL: I would say the perpetuation of the myth by the media that I can't win. [applause]",
"And the total ignoring some statistics that show it to be the opposite. Just recently, there was a poll in Iowa, and it matched all the four of us up against Obama. And guess what? I did the very best. [applause]",
"So I would say that is been the biggest myth. But let me tell you, though, public perception is one thing, but when you go around and talk to the American people and we have our rallies, that misconception isn't there. And I think that's the biggest misconception that I have to deal with."
