"PERRY: Well I think you have to ask the question of, who is it that can beat Obama. Who is it that can invigorate the -- the Tea Party? Who is it that can take the message of -- of smaller, outsider government that's truly going to change that places (sic). I look from here down to Rick Santorum I see insiders. Individuals who have been the big spending Republicans in -- in Washington, D.C.",
"And lets be honest with ourselves, I mean the fact of the matter is that Obama has thrown gasoline on the fire. But the bonfire was burning well before Obama got there. It was policies and spending, both from Wall Street and from the insiders in Washington, D.C., that got us in this problem. And we need a candidate that can not only draw that stark contrast between themselves and Barack Obama, but also stand up and lead the Tea Party movement back.",
"2010 was about the Tea Party standing up and understanding that Republicans, big spending Republicans that caused the -- as much of this problem as anything, and it was their power that brought together -- that brought Washington, D.C., and the House to Republican control. And that's the kind of individual we've got to have to -- to lead this election.",
"PERRY: Well, let me answer the question that you asked earlier, what are the three areas that you would make some reductions that people would feel some pain. And I will tell you, it would be those bureaucrats at the Department of Commerce and -- and Energy and Education that we're going to do away with. [applause]",
"PERRY: You know, the fact of the matter is that Americans want to have a job. That's -- that's the issue here. And the idea that -- that there are people clamoring for government to come and to give them assistance is just wrong-headed. And -- and that's what he needs to be focusing on as a people, is how do we create the environment in this country where the entrepreneurs know that they can risk their capital, have a chance to have a return on the investment and create the -- the jobs out there so people can have the dignity to take care of their families.",
"That's what Americans are looking for.",
"I've done that for the last 11 years in the state of Texas and have the executive governing experience that no one else up here on this stage has.",
"PERRY: Good. We need to.",
"PERRY: I hope I'm making Republicans uncomfortable right now by talking about the spending that they've done back in the 2000s, when we had control of both parties. I mean that...",
"PERRY: -- that is...",
"PERRY: Well, listen, Dr. Paul says that the biggest problem facing this country is -- is our work overseas. I disagree with that. The biggest problem facing this country today is a Congress that is out of control with their spending. And we've got to have someone, an outsider, that will walk in, not part of the insider group that you see here, people who have voted for raising the -- the debt limit, people who have been part of the problem that is facing America.",
"I will tell you two things that can occur that a president can lead the charge on. And it will put term limits into place. One of those is a part-time Congress to tell those members of Congress, we're going to cut your pay, we're going to cut the amount of time that you spend in Washington, DC, send you back to your districts so you can have a job, like everybody else in your district has, and live under the laws of which you pass...",
"PERRY: -- and then a balanced budget amendment to the United States Constitution.",
"PERRY: You do those two things...",
"PERRY: -- and that will make them uncomfortable.",
"PERRY: You're darned right, because there's a bunch of people standing up here that say they're conservatives, but the records don't follow up on that.",
"PERRY: Actually, it is a federal issue, and it's a federal issue because of the law that was passed that forces the states to make a decision about whether or not they're going to be right-to-work. So Jim DeMint's legislation, I would support that, of repealing that legislation that forces states to make that decision to be a right-to- work, rather than all of this country being right-to-work.",
"Listen, I'm not anti-union. I'm pro-job. And the way you promote this country's rehabilitation from the Obama administration's attack on -- on job creation is by taxes and regulation, particularly the regulatory side, and -- and pulling those regulations that have gone forward over the course of the last -- since ‘08 and test them all for -- do they create jobs or do they kill jobs? And if they kill jobs, you throw them out.",
"That will make more difference in this country from the standpoint -- I'm a right-to-work guy. I come from a right-to-work state. And I will tell you, if New Hampshire wants to become the magnet for job creation in the Northeast, you pass that right-to-work legislation in this state. [applause]",
"DISTASO: I'd like to -- I'd like to ask both Governor Romney, quickly, and Senator Santorum, quickly, do -- what positive contributions do labor unions provide in this country at this -- this point in the 21st century?",
"PERRY: I make a very proud statement and, in fact that we have a president that's a socialist. I don't think our founding fathers wanted America to be a socialist country. So I disagree with that premise that somehow or another that President Obama reflects our founding fathers. He doesn't. He talks about having a more powerful, more centralized, more consuming and costly federal government.",
"I am a Tenth Amendment believing governor. I truly believe that we need a president that respects the Tenth Amendment, that pushes back to the states. Whether it's how to deliver education, how to deliver health care, how to do our environmental regulations. The states will considerably do a better job than a one-size-fits-all Washington, D.C. lead by this president."
