"RICHARDSON: Well, I have a fundamental difference with Senator Obama, Senator Edwards and Senator Clinton. Here's my position. Their position basically is changing the mission.",
"My position in bringing all troops out of Iraq is to end the war. The American people want us to end this war. Our kids are dying -- the bloodiest last three months -- and my position is this, that you cannot start the reconciliation of Iraq, a political settlement, an all-Muslim peacekeeping force to deal with security and boundaries and possibly this issue of a separation, which is a plan that I do believe makes sense, until we get all our troops out, because they have become targets.",
"And I also disagree with Senator Clinton. I don't believe the Congress has done enough to end this war.",
"(Cross talk.)",
"RICHARDSON: We have been able to move our troops within three months -- 240,000 -- in and out of Iraq through Kuwait. This is what I would do. I would bring them out through roads through Kuwait and through Turkey. It would take persuading Turkey. The issue is light equipment. I would leave some of the light equipment behind.",
"But I believe what is fundamental here is that leaving any troop behind will prevent us from moving forward to secure some kind of stability in the region. I would invite Iran, I would invite Syria, and I would make sure that the entire issue is also tied to stability in the Israeli-Palestinian issue.",
"You cannot deal with the Iraq issue alone. You have to deal with it with the entire region.",
"RICHARDSON: Yes. And this is what I would do. I would approach it through diplomacy. A fundamental goal of our foreign policy should be not to permit Iran to develop nuclear weapons.",
"Another cornerstone of our foreign policy should be the strength and the security of Israel. So you cannot deny a nation the right to legitimately defend itself.",
"Now, my approach is different. By the way, talking about diplomacy, I've talked to a lot of these bad guys already. So I would have a head start in personal diplomacy. You have to approach Iran. First of all, you use diplomacy. Then you use sanctions.",
"The problem that we have with Iran is that we don't build the international support that is needed to put economic pressure on Iran.",
"And my point here is that Iran is susceptible to economic pressure. It can do so through -- they import half of their foodstuffs, half of their gasoline. They've got domestic unrest. I would not talk necessarily to Ahmadinejad. I would talk to moderate clerics. I would talk to business leaders. But 40 percent of the Iranian people vote for moderate candidates for president. So you first use diplomacy.",
"The problem, Tim, is, we can't build the international support with the Europeans, with Russia that has leverage on Iran to effectively pressure them not to build nuclear weapons and to stop messing around in Iran (sic).",
"But it's called diplomacy, it's called negotiation; it's called talking to Iran and Syria and trying to work out differences.",
"RICHARDSON: A fundamental tenet of American foreign policy is to support Israel, but Tim, you've got to bring diplomacy. The problem in the Middle East is there is no Middle East peace process. There are no -- there is no Middle East peace envoy. We don't talk to Syria. You've got Israel today less safe than it ever was. You've got Hamas on one side. You've got Hezbollah. You've got Iran wanting to build nuclear weapons. But you do it through diplomacy; you do it through a Middle East peace process. Get Lebanon involved, get Syria involved. The two-state solution. It's called diplomacy.",
"RICHARDSON: Are you asking me because I'm the Hispanic here? But I'll answer. (Laughter.)",
"The answer is yes. The problem we have is the lack of a comprehensive immigration policy. This is a federal responsibility. But what we have is, because of the dysfunctional relationship between the Congress and the president, there is no comprehensive immigration bill. We need to fix the immigration system that is broken. We need to find ways, number one, to increase security at the border with more detection equipment, more border patrol, not this silly wall.",
"Secondly, those that knowingly hire illegal workers need to be punished. Third, a foreign policy relationship with Mexico where you say to Mexico: Start giving jobs to your people. At the very least, don't give them maps on the easiest place to cross.",
"And lastly -- and lastly, a legalization program. Earn legalization. Not amnesty, not citizenship, but a process where they can earn their way into America. They can do it by learning English, by paying back taxes, by passing a background check, by paying a fine for having come in here illegally. Then get behind those that are trying to get here legally, and then increase the legal immigration quota, the H1-B visas.",
"But what you don't do is basically deport everybody; that makes no sense. That's not America; that's not going to work. Is the outline that I gave you messy? Yeah. Is it going to more bureaucracy? Yes. But the problem is cities and communities are being victimized by the failure of the Congress and the president to reach a resolution.",
"RICHARDSON: I've been in public life 25 years. And, you know, I may not be the perfect consultant, blow-dried candidate. I make mistakes. I admit them.",
"But, you know, Tim, the issue is, do I deliver? I mean, your network covered me five months ago when I brought back the remains of five of our -- remains of Korean War soldiers. I also persuaded with others, the North Koreans, to turn down their nuclear reactor.",
"As governor, today New Mexico's the sixth-fastest growing economy. I've insured kids under 12. Those statistics were way before me, but today, we have created a balanced budget. New Mexico is the clean energy state. No one ever questioned me that I deliver when I brought back American hostages and servicemen from Iraq, from Saddam Hussein, from the North Koreans, from Darfur. I got a fragile cease-fire. I received four Nobel Peace Prize nominations.",
"You know, sure, I've made mistakes, and I'm going to continue making them, I can tell you right here.",
"But I also want you to know that the issue is, can you deliver? You asked Senator Clinton. She's (a/the ?) candidate of experience. Senator Obama, a fresh voice for change. With Bill Richardson, you get both, change AND experience. (Laughter.) That's what I am conveying to the American people.",
"You got to be able to deliver. To bring change, you have to have the experience to deliver that change. And my record in terms of foreign policy, energy policy, what I've done for my state, I'm the only one who has negotiated with a foreign country here, I believe I have the best of both to be this president.",
"RICHARDSON: No, you don't need to do that. That's a 15 percent tax on small businesses, on the middle class, on family farms. You don't need to do that.",
"This is what you do.",
"One, you take privatization off the table. You don't want Social Security in the stock market.",
"Two, you stop raiding the Social Security Trust Fund, as the Congress and the president constantly do.",
"RICHARDSON: No, no, Tim. No, you don't.",
"RICHARDSON: No, no, wait. What -- no, wait. Because I know --",
"RICHARDSON: No, no, but what you do -- I am the only candidate here that has said, I'm for a constitutional amendment to balance the budget. You have to have fiscal discipline. You've got to also grow the economy. You have to have universal pensions.",
"Here's -- you know, this estimate, and you've just talked about, it's based on the growth of the economy, 1.3 percent. If it grows to 1.8, we don't have this. And if we -- if we balance the budget, restore our fiscal house, there will be economic growth. If we invest in education and have a stronger workforce, if we incentivize and have a pro-growth economy, where we say we're going to make America green, renewable energy, we're going to bring new jobs. Together --",
"RICHARDSON: Tim, I have said, I am for a constitutional amendment to balance the budget within five years. That is pain. You don't do it in a recession; you don't do it in a war. But if you also generate economic growth, this projection that you mentioned by the year 2041 is based on 1.3 economic growth.",
"That is pathetic --",
"RICHARDSON: -- to grow the economy --",
"RICHARDSON: I did it in New Mexico as a national law.",
"RICHARDSON: No, I wouldn't lower it. In fact, at this moment, my wife is hosting in New Mexico with the surgeon general a forum on underage drinking.",
"I think what you need, though, is a dual approach. Yes, we need to have strong law enforcement against DWI, against so many other law- related issues, but you also have to have treatment. You have to have substance abuse treatment, you have to education, you have to have rehabilitation, and the federal government to the states is not providing the resources and the leadership that we need. So just as much we don't lower the drinking age, you have to have more of a national commitment to rehabilitation and to research.",
"We need to have more research for diabetes, for cancer, for stem cell research, for heart disease. We're a nation -- let me just make one final point.",
"We spend $6 billion on cancer research. That is two weeks of the Iraq war. That shows the mistaken priorities that we have in this country.",
"RICHARDSON: No, I wouldn't. Because I think, as president, I would commit myself, number one, that I will be a leader that prevents discrimination on the basis of race, gender and sexual orientation. I will also be a president that follows the Constitution of the United States.",
"I will also be a president that will bring back habeas corpus and the rule of law. I will also be a president that will shut down Guantanamo. I will also be a president that will follow the Constitution and not permit torture as a tool in our foreign policy. I will not eavesdrop on American citizens. And I will not go to war, unless I get the consent of Congress.",
"And there are still basic differences on the war. My plans ends the war, getting the troops out, and with all due respect to Senator Obama, Senator Edwards, Senator Clinton, what I heard tonight is that even in their second terms, they will not get the troops out. Therefore, the war will not end.",
"RICHARDSON: No. I will do everything I can to fight terrorists. That's the main obligation of the American people. But that doesn't mean we become like terrorists and abridge our own freedoms. What the Bush administration has been using is called waterboarding. That is unacceptable not just with the Geneva Conventions, but in the spirit of our nation being a nation that respects human rights. That's not us. I would not permit it.",
"RICHARDSON: And, furthermore, I would not permit -- and here's another issue that I would like the Senate to take back -- the president of the United States has today unequaled authority to eavesdrop on American citizens, without a court order. The Congress needs to go back and rescind that.",
"RICHARDSON: That is another abridgement that needs to stop.",
"RICHARDSON: The Sermon on the Mount, because I believe it's an issue of social justice, equality, brotherly issues reflecting a nation that is deeply torn and needs to be heal and come together.",
"RICHARDSON: Red Sox, because Manny Ramirez is back. The Red Sox will win the penant and they will win the World Series.",
"(APPLAUSE)",