"RICHARDSON: That's what I would do as president.",
"RICHARDSON: Well, I think that two percent for the wealthiest Americans, that is unfair, unequal. That would go, in my objectives as president.",
"I think we also, when we talk about balancing the budget -- I'd advocate a constitutional amendment. Obviously, you can't do it in the time of war or recession. You can't do it in the time of an emergency. I would exclude Social Security.",
"But I think what is critically important is that when we talk about our most urgent national priority, the war, we've spent $500 billion in this war. And these are funds that could go to our domestic priorities -- to health care, to kids, to education, to improving our schools, to rebounding, also, in terms of our national spirit.",
"But fiscally responsible budgets, I believe, are critical for economic growth. And we use the tax structure to incentivize the economy, to give preference to solar, wind, and biomedical companies and aviation and companies of the future.",
"RICHARDSON: I would take those steps as president, along with improving our education system, too. That will make us more competitive.",
"RICHARDSON: Well, I detailed $57 billion in military reductions, which involve missile systems, procurement reform.",
"RICHARDSON: But we got to recognize that the Iraq war has drained our military. And what we need to do is we need a couple of more divisions in the Army, in the Marines.",
"We've got to take care of our veterans. The V.A. system needs guaranteed funding. Our veterans coming back with mental health problems, with trauma are not properly being taken care of.",
"And we need to recruit and retain to keep the volunteer Army going. We need to improve our readiness.",
"RICHARDSON: We need to improve our equipment.",
"So there are some military priorities that America and the next president has to address.",
"RICHARDSON: Well, for one, we should have a relationship that's based on a recognition that China is a strategic competitor. Our relationship with China today is clearly one-sided.",
"RICHARDSON: I'd be tougher with China when it comes to trade. I'd be tougher with China when it comes to human rights. They need to be doing a lot more on genocide in Darfur. They need to be doing more in Burma. They need to take steps where they protect their workers, where they have constitutional elections.",
"Now, at the same time, we also have to make sure that China trades on an equitable basis with the United States. We ought to ban all these toys they're bringing in. We ought to ban some of the food -- the contaminated food they're bringing in.",
"But we must recognize, too, that China's a major power, and we have to have an important strategic relationship with them.",
"So what I would do is I would be stronger, as I said, with China when it comes to human rights, when it comes to trade. I would tell them that they cannot continue playing around with currencies, because they control a large part of our debt. A large part of our $9 trillion debt is commercial banks in China.",
"It would be a stronger relationship with American leadership.",
"RICHARDSON: I believe universal health care is a human right for every American. And one-third of all of our health care budget, $2.2 trillion -- one-third of that goes to administration and bureaucracy, failure to have electronic records. That has to shift to direct care.",
"But prevention is going to be the key. You mentioned Medicare: 33 percent of Medicare costs are, today, related to diabetes. We got to have an elimination, as I did in New Mexico, of junk food in schools. We need to have mandatory phys ed.",
"RICHARDSON: We have to be a country that does research on stem cell research, on autism, on heart disease, on chronic diseases, on cancer.",
"We spend $6 billion on cancer this year -- in one year. That's two weeks of the Iraq war. That shows the misguided priorities that we have in this country.",
"RICHARDSON: Well, I believe that human rights is a fundamental tenet of American foreign policy and therefore trade policy. And I'm going to be very specific.",
"What we need to do is impose trade sanctions when a country violates human rights and doesn't hold elections, as we should be doing and we're doing in Burma, as we're doing in Sudan, as we probably should consider doing with China.",
"But also I think in any future trade agreement we've got to specify that every nation that we trade with and have a trade agreement has to follow international core labor standards: no child labor, no slave labor, the right of freedom of assembly, collective bargaining, the opportunity to make sure that there's job safety, that there's some kind of wage parity too, and also environmental protection, air quality standards.",
"RICHARDSON: This is what's important. These are our values.",
"We have to transmit our democratic values of equality and freedom and human rights when it comes to our trade policy, when it comes to our national security policy, and when it comes with us doing business abroad, to promote American trade and exports and get more jobs for our people.",
"RICHARDSON: Well, I'm going to use my 30 seconds to thank the people of Iowa for putting us through this very good process of electing a president.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"RICHARDSON: And I say that -- and I am going to focus on one issue, because I'm concerned about the fact that in the media and in the last debate, the Iraq war was not discussed.",
"And somehow we're losing sight that that's the most important, fundamental issue affecting our country, not just because we need to come together as a country and this war has divided us enormously, but also because the key to what we do and give health care a chance and education a chance and our kids a chance and creating jobs a chance -- and 38 Americans died in November, our troops.",
"We've got thousands -- over 60,000 -- with mental trauma and PTSD coming back. And we have a V.A. system that is responding.",
"This is such an urgent, fundamental issue. And I can tell you, as I've gone to every one of the 99 counties in Iowa, this is the number one issue affecting not just this country, but Iowa caucus- goers.",
"RICHARDSON: Well, I like to think that I've made my state a clean energy state. I was energy secretary. It's going to take an energy revolution.",
"And I regret that, this morning, the U.S. Senate, despite the best efforts of all here, killed an energy bill that would have given more tax credits and incentives to renewable energy.",
"And I think this is tragic. I think fuel efficiency standards in this country should be 50 miles per gallon, not 35. I think that's pathetic.",
"I think we need to have 30 percent renewable sources in all our electricity by the year 2020.",
"RICHARDSON: You asked about a year -- I think 2020. Reduce our consumption of oil by 50 percent by having flex-fuel vehicles -- 50 miles per gallon.",
"Also we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. And I would do so by 90 percent with a cap-and-trade program.",
"But, most importantly, it's going to take the American people. And it's going to take a president on a bully pulpit asking the American people to sacrifice a little bit, and I will. And that means being more sensitive to mass transit, to appliances, to air conditioning, to the way we live.",
"And if we all do this without mandates, but we all do this, we can reduce our dependence on foreign oil, which is enormously unhealthy. Sixty-five percent of our oil is imported. We're paying close to $100 per -- to OPEC today.",
"This has to be an energy revolution led by a president.",
"RICHARDSON: Well, I would make education one of the top priorities, if not the top priority, as president.",
"And I would start early: preschool for every child under 4. You get the kids before you're 4. Full-day kindergarten; that is desperately needed.",
"You talked about a timetable. I would say that within 15 years, America becomes number one again in science and math in K-12. We're 29th in the world.",
"RICHARDSON: I would hire 100,000 new science and math teachers. I would create science and math academies. I would revise and strengthen the high school curriculums, with local control.",
"Here's my position on No Child Left Behind. I don't think you can reform it. I'd scrap it. It's got to go. It's a burden on schools. It's an unfunded mandate. It hurts all kinds of kids in achievement.",
"What else would I do? I would recognize that the key to our educational system is a good teacher, and we disregard our teachers, we disrespect them, we don't pay them enough. I'd have a minimum wage starting salary of $40,000.",
"And then, finally, I would have art in the schools as a way to stimulate kids being stronger in science and math proficiency.",
"But if we're going to be competitive, if we're going to keep families together, if we're going to be a society that values unity, education is the key.",
"RICHARDSON: Well, we've made enormous progress in my state. We were 49th in the world -- in the country in teacher salaries. We're 28th today. Educational achievement has increased.",
"You know, one of the problems with No Child Left Behind in my state is that we have 11 percent Native Americans, we have 42 percent Hispanic, very rural. And so it's very hard for that achievement gap to be narrowed.",
"Teacher training has increased in my school, teacher performance. Testing has dramatically improved. We've reduced the achievement gap.",
"I have to deal with this issue every day just like Governor Culver.",
"RICHARDSON: I've dealt directly with some of these issues that affect our country.",
"RICHARDSON: The first year -- I'd end the war. All troops out within a year. No residual forces. A specific plan.",
"I'd make a major effort to pass the first year, and I think we could -- universal health care will take two or three years to implement. I'd announce an energy revolution, because I think this is one of the most urgent domestic and national security priorities, to reduce our dependence on foreign oil.",
"And then what I would do is I would simply say to the American people, as your president, I'm going to follow the Constitution of the United States. And that means the bringing back habeas corpus, not using torture as a tool in our foreign policy; rejoining the Geneva Conventions.",
"RICHARDSON: That means, too, not eavesdropping on our own citizens. That means restoring ourselves as a nation that is going to respect the balance between the executive, the legislative, and the judicial branch; that we're going to be the conscience of the world, not...",
"RICHARDSON: ... the world's policeman.",
"RICHARDSON: And I will add that in 25 years in public service there are probably many more other mistakes that I've made. But I want to say to you that when it was with Wen Ho Lee, this was the issue of protecting our nuclear secrets. And he did plead guilty.",
"I do feel that he was incarcerated in solitary confinement.",
"RICHARDSON: This was wrong. I tried to change it. But I didn't work hard enough.",
"The point is that we do have in all of our lives, as a congressman, as a U.N. ambassador, as a candidate, I've made a lot of gaffes -- and I'm glad you didn't raise them.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"But, you know, I'll stand -- I'll stand behind my record as energy secretary. I brought compensation to workers that had beryllium and other contamination. I brought forth a renewable portfolio standard, the first one, that says electricity has to be renewable in this country. We made air conditioning 30 percent more energy efficient.",
"There are some cases -- the Wen Ho Lee -- where I wish I'd been stronger. But I don't apologize for trying to protect our nuclear secrets. And we should have done a lot more.",
"RICHARDSON: Well, my New Year's resolution is one that I have every year, and that's to lose weight, and I'm going to do it again.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"RICHARDSON: But, you know, on a -- that's on a personal level. But, you know, I wish -- this is what I wish. I wish that the Congress and the president end their dysfunctional relationship and address the problems that affect this country -- health care, ending the war, torture, you know, energy. It just seems that everything they do, nothing ever happens.",
"And my last request is that I continue to stay positive. I think that we should, as Democratic candidates, stay positive, be optimistic, not tear each other down.",
"RICHARDSON: The American people want to see us together debating the major issues affecting the country.",
"RICHARDSON: Well, I've studied the history of the Iowa caucuses. What I like best about Iowans is you like underdog.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"And you like to shake things up. You don't like the national media and the smarty pants set telling you who's going to be the next president.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"And just -- I've been enormously enriched personally by my contact with Iowans. You're tough, you scrutinize, you look into our eyes and our hearts, you know the issues. And I've been privileged to be part of this process. Now I hope you vote for me."
