"ROMNEY: Well, let's go back -- let's go back and talk -- microphone on? Can we get the mike on? There we go.",
"ROMNEY: Let's go back and talk about the question that Dave asked, which is how to get small business a break. And President Obama has done everything wrong.",
"I happen to believe that to create jobs it helps to have had a job, and I have. And having had a job in small business and in big business, I know what you have to do is make America the most attractive place in the world for business, and that means our corporate tax rates, our employer tax rates have to be competitive. Small business pays at the highest rate. We need to get those rates down to globally competitive levels.",
"Number two, government and regulators have to be allies of business, not foes.",
"Number three, we've got to become energy secure in this country.",
"Number four, we have to have trade policies that work for us, not just for the other guys, and crack down on cheaters like China.",
"And my list goes on in my 59 points. But finally, let me tell you this... [applause]",
"I -- I know there are some that say, look, we should lower taxes for the very highest-income people. Other folks have different plans. My view is very simple: The people that have been hurt most by the president's economy, the Obama economy, has been the middle class.",
"That's why I cut taxes for the middle class.",
"ROMNEY: I don't try and define who's -- who's rich and who's not rich. I want everybody in America to be rich. I want people in this country to have opportunity. [applause]",
"And I want everybody to have the kind of opportunities that we on this stage have had. I want people in America to recognize that the future will be brighter for their kids than it was for them.",
"I know that the -- the president's party wants to try and take from some people and give to the others. That isn't the way to lift America. The way to lift America is to give people opportunity and to let them enjoy the freedoms that have made us the envy of the world. [applause]",
"ROMNEY: That's fine. I put my plan out, I want to make it clear my intent is to help the people who have been most hurt by President Obama's economy. And the people who have been most hurt are the middle income families of America. And that's why my plan says that if middle income families want to save their money, anybody earning under $200,000 and not pay any taxes on interest, dividends or capital gains, zero tax on their savings, that's the plan I'm for. And I will get that done in my first year. Thank you.",
"ROMNEY: Well, it's different than what the governor put in his book just, what, six months, and what you said in your interviews following the book. So I don't know. There's a Rick Perry out there that is saying -- and almost to quote, it says that the federal government shouldn't be in the pension business, that it's unconstitutional.",
"Unconstitutional and it should be returned to the states.",
"So you better find that Rick Perry and get him to stop saying that. [applause]",
"ROMNEY: Now, my own view is, that we have to make it very, very clear that Social Security is a responsibility of the federal government, not the state governments, that we're going to have one plan, and we're going to make sure that it's fiscally sound and stable.",
"And I'm absolutely committed to keeping Social Security working. I put in my book that I wrote a couple of years ago a plan for how we can do that and to make sure Social Security stable not just for the next 25 years, but for the next 75.",
"Thank you.",
"ROMNEY: Governor Perry, we were talking about Social Security, but if you want to talk about health care, I'm happy to do that.",
"ROMNEY: I actually wrote my book, and in my book I said no such thing. What I said, actually -- when I put my health care plan together-- and I met with Dan Balz, for instance, of The Washington Post. He said, \"Is this is a plan that if you were president you would put on the whole nation, have a whole nation adopt it?\"",
"I said, \"Absolutely not.\" I said, \"This is a state plan for a state, it is not a national plan.\"",
"And it's fine for to you retreat from your own words in your own book, but please don't try and make me retreat from the words that I wrote in my book. I stand by what I wrote. I believe in what I did.",
"And I believe that the people of this country can read my book and see exactly what it is.",
"Thank you. [applause]",
"ROMNEY: Let me tell you the title that I want to hear said about President Obama, and that is: former President Barack Obama. That's the title I want to hear. [applause]",
"Let me tell you this. What President -- what President Obama is, is a big-spending liberal. And he takes his political inspiration from Europe and from the socialist democrats in Europe. Guess what? Europe isn't working in Europe. It's not going to work here.",
"I believe in America. I believe in the opportunity and in the freedom that is American opportunity and freedom. I believe in free enterprise and capitalism. I believe government is too big. It's gone from 27 percent of our economy in the years of JFK to 37 percent of our economy. We have to rein in the scale of government or we're not going to be -- continue to be a free economy.",
"I love this country. I spent my life in the private sector, not in government. I only spent four years as a governor. I didn't inhale. [laughter]",
"I'm a business guy. I'm going to get America working again, because I believe in the principles that make America the hope of the Earth.",
"Thank you. [applause]",
"ROMNEY: Nice try.",
"Let me tell you what I think I would do.",
"One, education has to be held at the local and state level, not at the federal level. We need get the federal government out of education. And secondly, all the talk about we need smaller classroom size, look that's promoted by the teachers unions to hire more teachers. We looked at what drives good education in our state, what we found is the best thing for education is great teachers, hire the very best and brightest to be teachers, pay them properly, make sure that you have school choice, test your kids to see if they are meeting the standards that need to be met, and make sure that you put the parents in charge.",
"And as president I will stand up to the National Teachers Unions.",
"ROMNEY: I'm not sure exactly what he's saying. I don't support any particular program that he's describing. I think that the president -- I think the Secretary of Education Arne Duncan is doing a good thing by saying, you know what, we should insist that teachers get evaluated and that schools have the opportunity to see which teachers exceeding and which ones are failing and that teachers that are not successful are removed from the classroom. Those ideas by Secretary Duncan, that is a lot better than what the president did which is cutting off school choice in the Washington, D.C. schools. So let's give us a full chance to talk about it.",
"ROMNEY: It's an argument I just can't follow. I've got be honest with you, I don't see how it is that a state like Texas -- to go to the University of Texas, if you're an illegal alien, you get an in-state tuition discount. You know how much that is? That's $22,000 a year.",
"Four years of college, almost $100,000 discount if you are an illegal alien go to the University of Texas. If you are a United States citizen from any one of the other 49 states, you have to pay $100,000 more. That doesn't make sense to me. And that kind of magnet -- [applause]",
"ROMNEY: That kind of magnet draws people into this country to get that education, to get the $100,000 break. It makes no sense. We have to have -- just as Speaker Gingrich said, and as Michele Bachmann said as well, Congresswoman Bachmann, and that is we have to have a fence, we have to have enough Border Patrol agents to secure the fence, we have to have a system like E-Verify that employers can use to identify who is here legally and illegally.",
"We have to crackdown on employers that hire people that are here illegally. And we have to turn off the magnet of extraordinary government benefits like a $100,000 tax credit -- or, excuse me, discount for going to the University of Texas. That shouldn't be allowed. It makes no sense at all. [applause]",
"ROMNEY: Very simple. You start off by saying that you don't allow an inch of space to exist between you and your friends and your allies. [applause]",
"The president went about this all wrong. He went around the world and apologized for America. He -- he addressed the United Nations in his inaugural address and chastised our friend, Israel, for building settlements and said nothing about Hamas launching thousands of rockets into Israel.",
"Just before Bibi Netanyahu came to the United States, he threw Israel under the bus, tried to negotiate for Israel.",
"The right course -- if you disagree with an ally, you talk about it privately. But in public, you stand shoulder-to-shoulder with your allies. The right course for us... [applause]",
"The right course for us is not to try and negotiate for Israel. The right course is to stand behind our friends, to listen to them, and to let the entire world know that we will stay with them and that we will support them and defend them.",
"And with regards to Iran, which perhaps represents the greatest existential threat to Israel, we have to make it abundantly clear: It is unacceptable -- and I take those -- that word carefully -- it is unacceptable for Iran to become a nuclear nation. [applause]",
"ROMNEY: I don't think he knows what he was talking about in that -- in that regard.",
"Let me tell you this about our system in Massachusetts: 92 percent of our people were insured before we put our plan in place. Nothing's changed for them. The system is the same. They have private market-based insurance.",
"We had 8 percent of our people that weren't insured. And so what we did is we said let's find a way to get them insurance, again, market-based private insurance. We didn't come up with some new government insurance plan.",
"Our plan in Massachusetts has some good parts, some bad parts, some things I'd change, some things I like about it. It's different than Obamacare.",
"And what you -- what you heard from Herman Cain is one absolutely key point, which is Obamacare intends to put someone between you and your physician. It must be repealed. And if I'm president of the United States, on my first day in office, I will issue an executive order which directs the secretary of health and human services to provide a waiver from Obamacare to all 50 states. That law is bad; it's unconstitutional; it shall not stand. [applause]",
"ROMNEY: I'll use the same term again: Nice try. [laughter]",
"Governor, I'm -- I wrote a book two years ago, and I laid out in that book what my views are on a wide range of issues.",
"I'm a conservative businessman. I haven't spent my life in politics. I spent my life in business. I know how jobs come, how jobs go. My positions are laid out in that book. I stand by them.",
"Governor Perry, you wrote a book six months ago. You're already retreating from the positions that were in that book.",
"ROMNEY: Yeah, well, in that book, it says that Social Security was forced upon the American people. It says that, by any measure, Social Security is a failure. Not to 75 million people. And you also said that -- that Social Security should be returned to the states.",
"Now, those are the positions in your book. And simply, in my view, I'm stand by my positions. I'm proud of them.",
"There are a lot of reasons not to elect me, a lot of reasons not to elect other people on this stage, but one reason to elect me is that I know what I stand for, I've written it down. Words have meaning, and I have the experience to get this country going again. [applause]",
"ROMNEY: All across America, you've got families sitting across from their -- sitting in their living rooms and their kitchens, sitting at that kitchen table, with a calculator and a checkbook, seeing if they have enough money to make ends meet for the month or the week.You've got people who are sitting at that same table filling out job application forms, knowing that there are hundreds of other people that are doing the same thing for the same job.",
"These are tough times for a lot of people in this country, but we are a patriotic people. We place our hand over our heart during the playing of the national anthem. No other people on Earth do that. And if we're led by a leader who draws on that patriotism, who tells the truth, who lives with integrity, and who knows how to lead, America will remain the hope of the Earth and the strongest nation in the world. I'll do it. [applause]",
"ROMNEY: There are a couple of images I'm going to have a hard time getting out of my mind. [laughter]",
"That's one, and Gary Johnson's dogs are the other, I'll tell you. [laughter]",
"I'm -- I'm going to go with Newt on this, meaning I'm going to subscribe to his same view. I know I'm going to disappoint.",
"But my view is, if you pick a vice president, if you're lucky enough to become the nominee of this party, picking a vice president would be something you give a lot of thought to, a lot of evaluation to, and you want someone who without question could become the president of the United States.",
"These people could all fill that -- that position. Any one of them would be a better president than what we have now. [applause]",
"ROMNEY: Actually, I -- actually, I didn't use that term, but the newspaper did. That happens now and then. But the point is still, I think, that there are some problems that exist in each of our backgrounds that make it harder for us to get elected. I hope we get elected. I hope one of us gets to that White House. I think we will, because I think this president has failed miserably.",
"But I'll tell you one thing. I -- look, Governor Perry and I disagree on some issues. I think I probably disagree with everybody -- we all have differing views on different issues. But one thing's for sure: We all agree that President Obama needs to be former President Obama, and we're going to make that happen. [applause]"
