"ROMNEY: I'd be prepared to be a leader. You can't get the country to go in the right direction and get Washington to work if you don't have a president that's a leader. And three years ago, we selected a person who had never had any leadership experience, never worked in the private sector, never had the opportunity to actually bring people together, and he hasn't been able to do so.",
"He said he'd bring us hope and change. Instead, he's divided the nation and tried to blame other people.",
"The real course for America is to have someone who is a leader, who can identify people in both parties who care more about the country than they care about getting reelected.",
"There are Democrats like that. There are Republicans like that. I was the governor of a state that had a few Democrats. People in this room know how many we had in Massachusetts.",
"ROMNEY: You have to stand by your principles. At the same time, you know that good Democrats and good Republicans who love the country first will be able to find common ground from time to time and recognize we can't keep on spending like we're spending, we can't demand more from tax revenue from people, because that kills jobs and hurts working families.",
"We have got to help the middle class in this country. The only way that will come together is if you have people on both sides of the aisle who listen to a leader who has the experience of leading. And that's what America is looking for and desperately longing for.",
"ROMNEY: Well, you're talking about a scenario that's obviously very difficult to imagine. And --",
"ROMNEY: It is. I'm afraid it is a hypothetical.",
"ROMNEY: Do you want to explain why it's not a hypothetical?",
"ROMNEY: OK.",
"ROMNEY: It's still a hypothetical as to what's going to precisely happen in the future. I'm not very good at being omniscient, but I can tell you this, that I am not going to have to call up Timothy Geithner and say, how does the economy work? Because I spent my life in the economy.",
"I spent my entire career working in the private sector, starting businesses, helping turn around businesses, sometimes successfully and sometimes not. And I know how to make tough decisions and to gather the input from around the country to help make the important decisions that have to be made.",
"Clearly, if you think the entire financial system is going to collapse, you take action to keep that from happening. In the case of Europe right now, they are looking at what's happening with Greece. Are they going to default on their debt, are they not? That's a decision which I would I would like to have input on if I were president of the United States and try and prevent the kind of contagion that would affect the U.S. banking system and put as at risk.",
"But I can tell you this -- I'm not interested in bailing out individual institutions that have wealthy people that want to make sure that their shares are worth something. I am interested in making sure that we preserve our financial system, our currency, the banks across the entire country. And I will always put the interest of the American people ahead of the interest of any institution.",
"ROMNEY: No one likes the idea of a Wall Street bailout. I certainly don't.",
"ROMNEY: There is no question but that the action of President Bush and that Secretary Paulson took was designed to keep not just a collapse of individual banking institutions, but to keep the entire currency of the country worth something and to keep all the banks from closing, and to make sure we didn't all lose our jobs. My experience tells me that we were on the precipice, and we could have had a complete meltdown of our entire financial system, wiping out all the savings of the American people. So action had to be taken.",
"Was it perfect? No. Was it well implemented? No, not particularly.",
"Were there some institutions that should not have been bailed out? Absolutely.",
"Should they have used the funds to bail out General Motors and Chrysler? No, that was the wrong source for that funding. But this approach of saying, look, we're going to have to preserve our currency and maintain America -- and our financial system is essential.",
"ROMNEY: I wouldn't keep Ben Bernanke in office. I would choose someone of my own --",
"ROMNEY: Well, I haven't chosen that person. I haven't even chosen a vice president. I'm not sure I'm the nominee yet.",
"[laughter]",
"ROMNEY: Well, I wish we could find Milton Friedman again, although what Milton said to us was -- he said, you know, \"If you took all the economists in America, and you laid them end to end, it would be a good thing.\" And I have more respect for economists than that.",
"The people who help guide my economic policy are Greg Mankiw at Harvard --",
"ROMNEY: -- and Glenn Hutchins at Columbia. They were both former chairs of the Council of Economic Advisers. And I didn't always agree with them.",
"I also talk to a number of business leaders. I talked to people who are currently in the economy, in the financial sector, and in the manufacturing sector. And on the basis of these various viewpoints, I make my decisions. And I believe that drawing on the best minds of this country, including economists, is something that's essential to make sure that we preserve our financial system.",
"Right now, America is in crisis. We don't need to think about a hypothetical of what happens if Europe explodes and pulls us under, although if that does happen, you want to have someone who is smart, who has experience, who knows how the financial services sector works, who knows how to protect American jobs, and I do. I have done it.",
"ROMNEY: Well, no. You don't want to bail out anybody.",
"The idea of trying to bail out an institution to protect the shareholders or to protect a certain interest group, that's a terrible idea. And that shouldn't happen.",
"You do want to make sure that we don't lose the country and we don't lose our financial system and we don't lose American jobs, and that all the banks don't go under. So, you have to take action very carefully to make sure that you preserve our currency and preserve our financial system. But bailouts of individual institutions? No one has interest in that, I don't think.",
"ROMNEY: Well, I don't know which particular compromises he was referring to, we could take a look at that. But I can tell you this, if you go back a few years before that clip and go to JFK's time, the government at all levels, federal, state, and local, was consuming about 27 percent of the U.S. economy. Today it consumes about 37 percent of the U.S. economy. It is on track to get to 40 percent.",
"We cease, at some point, to be a free economy. And the idea of saying, we just want a little more, just give us some more tax revenue, we need that. That is not the answer for America. The answer is to cut federal spending. The answer is to cap how much the federal government can as a percentage of our economy and have a balanced budget amendment.",
"And the second part of the answer is to get our economy to grow, because the idea of just cutting and cutting and taxing more -- I understand mathematically those things work, but nothing works as well as getting the economy going. Get Americans back to work. Get them paying taxes. Get -- get corporations growing in America, investing in America. Bring dollars back, as Rick said, repatriation dollars. Bring $1.3 trillion back from overseas. Invest in the United States. Get this economy going, and I'll tell you, these kinds of problems will disappear.",
"ROMNEY: Well, my choice is not to cut defense. I think it's a terrible idea to cut defense. I think it's a terrible idea to raise taxes. Particularly at a time when the economy's struggling, the idea of raising taxes, taking more money away from the American people so government can spend it, and can spend it -- right now, the president has a jobs bill.",
"ROMNEY: How'd his last jobs bill work out for us?",
"ROMNEY: Not so well.",
"[crosstalk]",
"ROMNEY: No, I do not want the automatic cuts. I want to see that super-committee take responsibility for getting the economy going again by reining in the scale of the federal government and saying we're going to pull back on some of the programs we have and reform our entitlements so they're sustainable.",
"The American people want to see growth and jobs, and they believe that the right way to do it is by cutting back on the scale of government, and they're right.",
"ROMNEY: I will label China as it is, a currency manipulator. And I will go after them for stealing our intellectual property. And they will recognize that if they cheat, there is a price to pay. I certainly don't want a trade war with anybody. We are going to have a trade war, but we can't have a trade surrender either.",
"[end video clip]",
"ROMNEY: I'm afraid that people who have looked at this in the past have been played like a fiddle by the Chinese. And the Chinese are smiling all the way to the bank, taking our currency and taking our jobs and taking a lot of our future. And I am not willing to let that happen.",
"I'm in this race to try to get America to make sure we're strong again and we're creating jobs where the best place in the world to be middle class again. And for that to happen, we have to call cheating for what it is.",
"And people say, we might have a trade war with China. Well, now, think about that.",
"We by this much stuff from China, they buy that much stuff from us. You think they want to have a trade war?",
"I mean, this is a time when we are being hollowed out by China, that is artificially holding down their prices, as you just said a moment ago, and that's having a massive impact on jobs here. It is the wrong course for us.",
"When people have pursued unfair trade practices, you have to have a president that will take action. And on day one, I have indicated, day one, I will issue an executive order identifying China as a currency manipulator. We'll bring an action against them in front of the WTO for manipulating their currency, and we will go after them. If you are not willing to stand up to China, you will get run over by China, and that's what's happened for 20 years.",
"[applause]",
"ROMNEY: We can get rid of it with 51 votes. We have to get rid of Obamacare and return to the states the responsibility...",
"[crosstalk]",
"ROMNEY: No, not if you get rid of it. And particularly -- by the way, the Supreme -- the Supreme Court may get rid of it.",
"[crosstalk]",
"ROMNEY: Let me finish. Let me finish.",
"ROMNEY: Hold on, guys.",
"ROMNEY: Let me just -- let me just say this, which is we all agree about repeal and replace. And I'm proud of the fact that I've put together a plan that says what I'm going to replace it with. And I think it's incumbent on everybody around this table to put together a plan that says this is what I'll replace it with, because the American people are not satisfied with the status quo. They want us to solve the problem of health care, to get it to work like a market, and that's what has to happen.",
"ROMNEY: I said we had to repeal it. Did you miss that?",
"ROMNEY: No, no, I said I'm going to repeal it through reconciliation.",
"[crosstalk]",
"ROMNEY: Herman, I have had the experience in my life of taking on some tough problems. And I must admit that simple answers are always very helpful, but oftentimes inadequate.",
"And in my view, to get this economy going again, we're going to have to deal with more than just tax policy and just energy policy, even though both of those are part of my plan.",
"And the other parts of my plan are these. One is to make sure that we stop the regulatory creep that has occurred in Washington. And all of the Obama regulations, we say no to, we put a halt on them, and reverse all those that cost jobs.",
"Number two, we have trade policies that open up new markets to American goods. And I lay out a number of things that I would do in that 59 points to open up more markets to American goods. And, we, of course, stop the cheating that goes on.",
"We also have to have the rule of law. By that I mean you can't have the federal government, through its friends at the National Labor Relations Board, saying to a company like Boeing that you can't build a factory in a non-union state. That's simply wrong and violates the principle of the rule of law.",
"We also have to have institutions that create human capital. We're a capitalist system. But we don't just believe in physical capital or financial capital, also human capital. We need great schools, great institutions.",
"Finally, you have got to have a government that does not spend more money than it takes in. Those are the seven major pillars of those 59.",
"ROMNEY: Let me tell you, to get this economy restructured fundamentally, to put America on a path to be the most competitive place in the world to create jobs, is going to take someone who knows how to do it. And it is not one or two things. It is a good number of things to get America...",
"[crosstalk]",
"ROMNEY: Well, the reason for giving a tax break to middle income Americans is that middle income Americans have been the people who have been most hurt by the Obama economy. The reason that you're seeing protests, as you indicated, on Wall Street and across the country is, middle income Americans are having a hard time making ends meet.",
"Not only do we have 25 million people out of work, or stopped looking for work, or part-time jobs needing full-time employ, we just saw this week that median income in America has declined by 10 percent during the Obama years. People are having a hard time making ends meet.",
"And so if I'm going to use precious dollars to reduce taxes, I want to focus on where the people are hurting the most, and that's the middle class. I'm not worried about rich people. They are doing just fine. The very poor have a safety net, they're taken care of. But the people in the middle, the hard-working Americans, are the people who need a break, and that is why I focused my tax cut right there.",
"ROMNEY: Well, my background is quite different than you described, John. So the way I'll win it is by telling people an accurate rendition of what I have done in my life. And fortunately, people in New Hampshire, living next door, have a pretty good sense of that.",
"They understand that in the business I was in, we didn't take things apart and cut them off and sell them off. We, instead, helped start businesses, and they know some of the names.",
"We started Staples. We started the Sports Authority. We started Bright Horizons children's centers. Heck, we even started a steel mill in a farm field in Indiana, and that steel mill operates today and employs a lot of people.",
"So, we began businesses. Sometimes we acquired businesses and tried to turn them around, typically effectively. And that created tens of thousands of new jobs.",
"And I am proud of the fact that we were able to do that. That is a big part of the American system.",
"People are not going to -- in my opinion, are not going to be looking for someone who is not successful. They want someone who has been successful and who knows how fundamentally the economy works.",
"Look, I would not be in this race had I spent my life in politics alone. Nothing wrong with that, of course, but right now, with the American people in the kind of financial crisis they are in, they need someone who knows how to create jobs, and I do.",
"ROMNEY: You know, the -- the great thing about running for president is to get the chance also to talk about your experience as a governor. And I'm proud of the fact that we took on a major problem in my state.",
"And the problem was that we had a lot of kids without insurance, a lot of adults without insurance, but it added up to about 8 percent of our population. And we said, you know what, we want to find a way to get those folks insured, but we don't want to change anything for the 92 percent of the people that already have insurance. And so our plan dealt with those 8 percent, not the 92 percent.",
"One of the problems with Obamacare is he doesn't just deal with the people without insurance. He takes over health care for everyone. Then he does something else that Chris Christie said today. He said the problem with Obamacare is he spends an extra trillion dollars and raises taxes. And raising taxes is one of the big problems, something we didn't do in Massachusetts. He also cuts Medicare. Only -- but people out there are talking about cutting Medicare, it's President Obama that did that.",
"And I'm proud of what we are able to accomplish. I'll tell you this, though. We have the lowest number of kids as a percentage uninsured of any state in America. You have the highest. You...",
"[crosstalk]",
"ROMNEY: I'm still -- I'm still speaking.",
"[crosstalk]",
"ROMNEY: I'm still speaking. We -- we have -- we have less than 1 percent of our kids that are uninsured. You have a million kids uninsured in Texas. A million kids. Under President Bush, the percentage uninsured went down. Under your leadership, it's gone up.",
"I care about people. Now, our plan isn't perfect. Glenn Hubbard is a fine fellow. Take a look at his quote. Some people say that. Just because some people say something doesn't mean it's true.",
"The truth is, our plan is different, and the people of Massachusetts, if they don't like it, they can get rid of it. Right now, they favor it 3 to 1.",
"But I'm not running for governor of Massachusetts. I'm running for president of the United States. And as president, I will repeal Obamacare, I'll grant a waiver on day one to get that started, and I'll make sure that we return to the states what we had when I was governor, the right to care for our poor in the way we thought best for our respective states.",
"ROMNEY: You'd think someone from PBS would know that.",
"[crosstalk]",
"ROMNEY: Exactly. Exactly right.",
"Let me turn to Congresswoman Bachmann and just -- just as you, Congresswoman. As -- as we've spoken this evening, we're all concerned about getting Americans back to work. And you've laid out some pretty bold ideas with regards to taxation and cutting back the scale of the federal government. And there's no question that's a very important element of getting people back to work.",
"And I'd like to ask you to expand on your other ideas. What do you do to help the American people get back to work, be able to make ends meet? You've got families that are sitting around the kitchen table wondering how they're going to make -- make it to the end of the month. You've got -- you've got young people coming out of college, maybe not here at Dartmouth, but a lot of colleges across the country wondering where they can get a job.",
"What -- what would you do -- beyond the tax policies you describe -- to get people back to work?",
"ROMNEY: Give her the answer, Charlie.",
"[laughter]",
"ROMNEY: Oh, oh, OK.",
"ROMNEY: OK. What's happened in this country under the Obama administration is that you have a president who I think is well meaning, but just over his head when it comes to the economy.",
"And the absolute wrong time to have the absolute wrong people put together a financial regulatory bill was right now in Barney Frank and Chris Dodd. They were the wrong guys at the wrong time, because what they did with this new bill is usher in what will be hundreds and thousands of pages of new regulations.",
"The big banks, the big money-center banks on Wall Street, they can deal with that. I spoke with one banker there that said they have hundreds of lawyers working on that legislation and trying to implement it.",
"For community banks that provide loans to businesses like yours, they can't possibly deal with a regulatory burden like that. Then you have inspectors coming in and writing down their assets and saying they're not worth as much as the bank thought they were worth, and therefore the banks are unable to lend.",
"Small community banks across this country are starving and struggling because of inspectors that are making their job impossible and because of regulation that's fine for the big banks, because they can deal with it. It's a killer for the small banks. And those small banks loaning to small businesses and entrepreneurs are what have typically gotten our economy out of recession. What's -- what the president has done on almost every dimension is exactly the wrong thing to get this economy going again.",
"ROMNEY: No one likes to see tax increases, but look, the stimulus bills the president comes out with that are supposedly going to create jobs, we have now seen this played in the theater several times, and what we're seeing has not worked.",
"The American people know that when he went into office and borrowed $800 billion for a massive job stimulus program, then they did not see the jobs. Some of those green jobs we were supposed to get, that is money down the drain.",
"The right course for America is not to keep spending money on stimulus bills, but instead to make permanent changes to the tax code. Look, when you give -- as the president's bill does, if you give a temporary change to the payroll tax, and you say, we're going to extend this for a year or two, employers do not hire people for a year or two.",
"They make an investment in a person that goes over a long period of time. And so if you want to get the economy going again, you have to have people who understand how employers think, what it takes to create jobs.",
"And what it takes to create jobs is more than just a temporary shift in a tax stimulus, it needs instead fundamental restructuring of our economy to make that sure we are the most attractive place in the world for investment, for innovation, for growth, and for hiring. And we can do that again.",
"ROMNEY: Look, I don't like temporary little Band-Aids, I want to fundamentally restructure America's foundation economically.",
"ROMNEY: You know, we've talked about crisis this evening, economic crisis, people out of work, incomes going down. But there's another crisis, and that's that people wonder whether their future will be brighter for the kids than it's been for them. It's always been what it means to be American, to have a greater degree of confidence in the future than even what we've enjoyed ourselves.",
"And what we have to do is to have leadership in this country, like the men and women at this table, who believe in America. My experience will help us get our values strong, get our economy strong, and make sure that our military is second-to-none in the world.",
"I'm absolutely devoted to making America the strongest nation on Earth. And if you don't want that as your objective, don't vote for me. We already have a president that doesn't make that his first -- first objective."
