"ROMNEY: This is, indeed, a time of extraordinary challenges in this country, and the overspending in Washington and the over promises that we've made are certainly among those challenges, but this is not a time for us to wring our hands and think that the future is bleak. In fact, the future is bright. We need leadership in Washington that will rein in excessive spending, and we also need leadership that will help America grow. The best answer for our economic woes is to make sure we have good jobs for our citizens, good health care for everyone, and that we have policies that promote the growth of the nation. We can have a level playing field around the world, get ourselves off foreign oil, reduce the excessive spending in Washington, and have a bright future for our kids. This, again, is based upon the strength of the American people. If you want to see a strong America, you don't look to Washington, you look to strength in the American people.",
"ROMNEY: Well, we don't have to run a deficit to pay for the things that are most important because we can eliminate the things that aren't critical. In the private sector, where I spent the first 25 years of my life and most of my career, you learn how to focus on the things that are most important and you get rid of the things that aren't. We have in the federal government 342 different economic development programs often administered by different departments. We don't need 342. We probably don't need a hundred of those. We probably need a lot fewer than that. We have 40 different programs for work force training. There are probably five or six that are really working and a lot that are probably not working terribly well. We can get rid of some of those. We have 13 different programs to prevent teenage pregnancy. They're obviously not working real well, and we could probably cut it down to one or two that are making a difference. What anyone in the private sector's learned how to do is to focus their resources on those things that have the biggest impact, that are most important. Surely protecting our country and the defense of our military is critical. Getting our free market, finally able to allow all of our citizens to have health insurance, that's something we did in Massachusetts. Improving our schools with school choice, better pay for better teachers, these are a lot of things that we can do but they don't require us to eliminate the things that are most critical in our society. Instead they require us to get rid of those things that are unnecessary, and the sacrifice we need for the American people, it's this: it's saying let the programs that don't work go.",
"ROMNEY: Don't lobby for them forever.",
"ROMNEY: I don't stay awake at night worrying about the taxes that rich people are paying, to tell you the truth. I'm concerned about the taxes that middle-class people are paying. They're under a lot of pressure. Gasoline is expensive. Home Heating oil, particularly in the northeast, is very difficult for folks. Health care costs are going through the roof. Education costs in higher education are overwhelming. And as a result, we need to reduce the burden on middle-income families in this country.",
"ROMNEY: Well, you know, I'm just trying to get into your situation.",
"ROMNEY: Yeah, I've spent the last, as I told you, 25 years in the private sector. I understand why jobs come and why jobs go. I've done business in over 20 countries around the world. And I understand how we can build strength in our economy, and that's by investing in education, investing in technology and innovation, getting ourselves off of foreign oil, and making sure the playing field that we play on around the world is level. It's not right now. We're going to have to renegotiate deals with people like those in China that manipulate their currency to put their products at an advantage over ours. We want to make sure that we do not have a circumstance where people close down their markets to our goods, because we can compete anywhere in the world. One out of three agricultural acres is planted to go offshore, so don't put up barriers that keep us from being able to trade. America can compete anywhere in the world, and to remain a superpower, we must compete around the world.",
"ROMNEY: How about 30 seconds?",
"ROMNEY: Well, it's going to help our economy because we're going to invest in new technologies to get ourselves off of foreign oil. And as we get ourselves off of foreign oil, we also dramatically reduce our co2 emissions. That's good for the environment. It's also good for our economy. Because buying $300, $400 billion worth a year in oil from people who use it against us, that's bad for our economy. It's also bad for the environment. We can do these things in a way that helps both the environment and the economy and national security. That's the beauty of what we're talking about here, which is, yeah, is global an issue for the world? Absolutely. Is it something we can deal with by becoming energy independent and energy secure? We sure can. But at the same time, we call it global warming, not America warming. So, let's not put a burden on us alone and have the rest of the world skate by without having to participate in this effort. It's a global effort but our independence is something we can do unilaterally.",
"ROMNEY: Carolyn, these are 60-second answers, right?",
"ROMNEY: Okay, let's make sure because time is going pretty quick here. Education is an important topic, and the President was right to fight for No Child Left Behind, because we allow states now to test our kids and see how they're doing, particularly in math and English. We've made the same effort in our state, actually before No Child Left Behind was passed. We test our kids. We have high standards. We teach them in English, English immersion. We say to be successful in America, you've got to speak the language of America. We also put in place incentives for kids to do well. For those that take the graduation exam, which you have to take to get out of high school, we say you're going to get, if you score in the top 25% of the test, a four-year tuition-free scholarship to a Massachusetts institution of higher learning.",
"ROMNEY: And the federal government insists on those tests and standards. And it's key. Let me continue. I think we also have to have higher pay for better teachers. And people who are not good teachers ought to find a better career. And finally, we need more parental involvement. And we've tested our kids in Massachusetts along with all the other kinds in the nation. Fifty states get tested every year in English and math. In fourth and eighth grade, my eighth graders came out number one in English, came out number one in math. My fourth graders, number one in English, number one in math. The first time in history one state number one in all four measures. School choice, better pay for better teachers, high standards, scholarships for the best kids, English immersion, these principles work.",
"ROMNEY: Just one small adjustment to what Governor Huckabee had to say, and I don't believe you had the finest record of any governor in education –",
"\n(Laughter)",
"ROMNEY: -- because there's another one on the stand whose kids outperformed me. The kids in our state, as I indicated, scored number one in all four measures on the national exams, and they did that because of Republican principles, free market principles and it was a partnership. You see, education is not just the teachers union. I agree with Senator Thompson on that. They've been the biggest obstacle to change in education and choice. It's not just one side of this, it's teachers, it's parents, it's the state, it's federal government, it's all levels coming together and working together for the benefit of our kids. And we face right now an education challenge that's really unusual. We're behind. America's behind in education. Our kids score in the bottom 10-25% in exams around the world among major industrial nations, and we've got to have the kind of change that requires all of us working together, not just poking and saying it's someone else's job.",
"ROMNEY: I want to do more than talk in my first year. There are a lot of things that I want to get done. First of all, I want to establish a strategy to help us overwhelm global Jihad and keep the world safe. I want to end illegal immigration. We can get that done. I want to end the expansion growth of entitlements, rein ‘em in. I want to end the extraordinary growth in federal spending, and I want to keep our tax burden down and reduce our tax burden on middle-income families. I want to get us on a track to become energy independent. I want to get our schools on a track so they can become competitive globally. And I want to get health insurance for every America. It's going to take four years for that to happen, but I'll get us on track. We'll have a stronger military, a stronger economy, and stronger values with stronger families after my first year in office.",
"ROMNEY: I want to begin by saying thank you to the people of Iowa over the last year. My wife and I visited many, many home, many places, over 70 town meetings, 67 counties. Josh, my son, has visited all 99 counties. People here have warm hearts. They've welcomed us and it's something that's made me feel very good about America. Anybody who's worried about the future of this great land needs to come to Iowa and meet the people with the kind of heartland values that you have here. People here also recognize we face real challenges, and they want somebody who will strengthen America. I know how to keep America strong. I know a lot about the economy. I'll make sure we keep good jobs. I've learned a lot about education and health care. I'll improve our schools, get our health care system working for all Americans, and I'll make sure that we have the kind of values that we can be proud of that are so essential to the great strength of this nation. And finally I want to say to the people of Iowa, I need your help, I'd like your vote, and I want you to get out and participate in that caucus.",
"ROMNEY: I'm not sure.",
"(Laughter)",
"ROMNEY: This audience and the whole nation has heard time and time again the fact that I was effectively pro choice when I ran for office. When I became Governor of Massachusetts, the first time a bill came to my desk, I simply could not side with taking a life. And I came on the side of life. Every bill that came to my desk, every issue that related to protecting the sanctity of life, I can down on the side of life. I'm pro-life, I'm not going to apologize for becoming pro-life. Ronald Reagan followed the same course, as did Henry Hyde and George Herbert Walker Bush, and I'm proud to be pro-life.",
"ROMNEY: I think it's incredibly important he be a conservative. I'm going to build on the same foundation Ronald Reagan built. We're not going to get the White House nor strengthen America unless we can pull together the coalition of conservatives and conservative thought that has made us successful as a party. That's social conservatives. It's also economic conservatives, and foreign policy and defense conservatives. Those three together form the three legs of the Republican stool that allowed Ronald Reagan to get elected and allowed our party to have strength over the last several decades. And I'm going to continue to draw, as many on this stage try and do, upon those strengths and to build America by virtue of those conservative principles whether in health care, education, defense, spending, entitlement reform, you name it. Conservative principles work. They've been tested time and again, and they'll keep working.",
"ROMNEY: I think we're better off by strictly following the Constitution as it existed and as it was brought forward, and if we think there's a need for a new right, then going to the people or their elected representatives to establish that right, rather than having judges from their own heart or their own mind establishing new rights and new laws. It's not for judges to legislate or to create a new Constitution. That's something that only the people and their elected representatives should be able to do.",
"ROMNEY: Let's have a resolution amongst all of us that we'll have a spirited campaign as we have, but we'll come together, come together real soon when this is resolved, and we will fight to make sure that one of the people on this stage is the next President of the United States, not one of the people on that Democratic stage you've had more than once."
