"SANTORUM: Yes, I think it's one thing to shrink the size of a state government but it's another thing to actually get something accomplished in Washington. It's a much tougher field.",
"And I'm the one in the — on this stage and, frankly, on both stages that has actually gone to Washington, said we would shrink government, said we would shake things up and actually delivered for the conservative cause, everything from welfare reform, which was the largest, most significant accomplishment in the last 25 years for conservatism.",
"I authored the bill when I was in the House of Representatives; I managed the bill on the floor of the United States Senate. You need a conservative who can deliver and that's what I bring to the table.",
"SANTORUM: Well, if you look at my flat tax, it actually takes the best of what Steve Forbes, Art Laffer, many have been advocating for a long time, which is a very strong pro-growth tax code — very simple. And, it adjusts it to make sure that it is not regressive.",
"We have a $2,750 per person tax credit — that's $2,750 off the taxes due, not a deduction, a credit. And, we think — in fact, if you run the numbers, no American who's going to be paying more taxes under our proposal, so, we've accomplished both.",
"We have a system that has a low single rate, but we take care of American families. I'm talking about $2,750 per person. That means a family four, that's $11,000 dollar tax credit. That's a very, very strong pro-family — and if you looked at the Wall Street Journal today, and so many of the publications that have been out there, they've talked about how the biggest problem of the hollowing out of the middle of this country. For workers to be able to raise is actually, the breakdown of the American family.",
"William Galston, a liberal, said that on the pages of the Wall Street Journal today that the key to poverty is families. So, we put forth a pro-growth — Steve Forbes plan, combined it with a pro- family plan, and that's why I think it's going to work out, and work effectively.",
"SANTORUM: What we should be — we shouldn't be putting tariffs on anything. That hurts working men and women in this country. What we should be doing is making our manufacturing more competitive.",
"One of the reasons I introduced the 20/20 plan, a 20 percent flat tax on corporations, as well as on individuals, is so we can be competitive, so we can bring those manufacturing jobs back.",
"You want to talk about cutting pollution? You do a little back- of-the-envelope. We — we produce, per dollar of GDP, about one-fifth of the CO2 and other pollutants that China produces. So we're five times more efficient in producing goods here, as far as the environment — environment is concerned.",
"Why don't we — if we really want to tackle environmental problems, global warming, what we need to do is take those jobs from China and bring them back here to the United States, employ workers in this country.",
"We've lost two million jobs — two million jobs — under this administration in manufacturing — 15,000 manufacturers have left this country. Why? Because of bad tax policy, bad regulatory policy and, yes, bad trade policy.",
"We need to have a president that's going to pledge, as I have — I'm going to make America the number-one manufacturer so working men and women can have good paying jobs again in America.",
"CRAMER: Thank you, Senator. John?",
"SANTORUM: — with competition...",
"SANTORUM: — for low wage workers.",
"SANTORUM: [inaudible] and I...",
"SANTORUM: That's not what's happening.",
"SANTORUM: A true conservative wants to create a level playing field. That's what — that's what we're — that's what government is supposed to do. They're not supposed to favor one group over another.",
"And when it comes to our manufacturers, the level playing field is not in the United States. It's international. And so the federal government should have laws, tax laws, regulatory laws and, yes, finance laws. There's 60 other ex-im banks all over — all over the world.",
"Every major competitor for the United States' manufacturing dollar has one of those banks.",
"And guess what? They use those banks a heck of a lot more than their — than the United States of America does, number one.",
"So in order to have a level playing field, which is what conservatives talk about all the time, level playing field, then we have to have export financing and here's why.Because export financing doesn't help Boeing, or G.E.",
"G.E. just lost a contract, you know what they did? They went to . They got the X.M. (ph) bank in France to support it, and what did they do? They moved manufacturing out of South Carolina, out of Texas, moved to — Hungary, and to France. G.E. is still making money. G.E. is still doing well, but American workers are out of jobs. That's why we have to have this level playing field so we can compete with the rest of the world.",
"UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you, Senator.",
"SANTORUM: Well, first, since you mention Colorado, I want to thank the people of Colorado because four years ago you — gave me the honor of winning the nomination out here in the state of Colorado. On a night we won three states, and it catapulted us to win 11 states ultimately, so, I just want to thank you very, very much for that support, and — in response to that, I do drink a lot of Coors beer, so...[laughter]",
"I try to help. The answer is pretty simple. The answer is simple. There are no shortage of breweries around the United States of America. I — I do — as I travel around the country, I do pints and politics, and I go to breweries all over the place, and there — there's almost no town in America anymore that doesn't have a brewery, so I don't think we need to worry too much.",
"They're obviously — if there's — if there's some anti- competitive issues, you know, we have agencies to look at that. But, no, I'm not — I'm not concerned that Americans are not going to have choices in beer.",
"SANTORUM: And I care about, by the way. I care about choices.",
"SANTORUM: Well, I — I would say this, that what you're seeing is — in health care, you're seeing a lot of consolidation, and that consolidation is occurring because of Obamacare.",
"You're seeing it particularly in an area that I am concerned about, and that's in insurance — health insurance. You're seeing the big health insurance companies fold up.",
"You've seen Obama try to seed health insurance companies, and they've all failed, I think, except one. Why? Because we have a system of Obamacare with minimum loss ratios that make it virtually impossible for a small insurer to operate effectively.",
"And this was the motive behind Obamacare. This wasn't incidental. This was deliberate, to make it so impossible for small insurers to survive...",
"SANTORUM: ...that they consolidate into a small group. Then the left can say, \"there is no competition, we need a single payer.\" That's why we have to repeal Obamacare. [applause]",
"SANTORUM: Thank you. Can I just say something about that?",
"SANTORUM: Well, if you look at our plan that I introduced, the 2020 Clear Vision for America, we increase growth by 10 percent, 1 percent a year. So we go from 2.3 to 3.3, in repealing Obamacare, it's another .7. So you're looking at 4 percent growth, according to the Tax Foundation.",
"And unlike Donald Trump and Bobby Jindal, we don't add $10 trillion to the deficit. In fact, our plan, while it creates as many jobs as their plan does and grows the economy as much as theirs does, we are a revenue-neutral plan because I believe that we need to reduce the size of government, yes, but we also need to reduce our deficit, and we need to get our budget balanced so we can start paying down this debt. And adding a trillion dollars with a tax cut and getting no more growth is not the way to do it.",
"But that's only half of it. The word \"economy\" comes from the Greek \"euthokis\" (ph) which means family. The family is the first economy. And the one thing that we do not talk about enough is how stable families are vitally important for the middle of America to be prosperous and to grow and be safe. And I will have policies, not just tax policies, but others that will make sure that families are strong again in America.",
"SANTORUM: MLB, NHL, so I'm a big sports fan. And \"The Wall Street Journal.\" Those are the three apps I use the most.",
"SANTORUM: Well, since we're usually in the Super Bowl at the Pittsburgh Steelers...",
"Steeler nation, anybody?",
"UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No.",
"SANTORUM: No. I was in...[crosstalk]...was in Kansas City over the weekend to watch the Steeler game and about a third of the crowd were Steeler fans. So I'm usually not alone when I call on Steeler Nation.",
"But we are used to being in the Super Bowl, so actually, it is in Pennsylvania already.",
"SANTORUM: I grew up in a steel town of Western Pennsylvania, outside of Pittsburgh, and when I announced for president, I announced from the factory floor. When I talk about making America the number one manufacturer again in the world, it's not just talk. When I talk about having the opportunity for people to rise again, it's not just because it polls well.",
"I represented the old steel valley of Pittsburgh. I represented a 70% Democratic district, and won with 60% of the vote. Why? Because I aligned myself with working men and women who feel that neither party, and certainly not Washington D.C. cares about them.",
"You elect me, we will get American workers on the side of the Republican party, and we can not be stopped if we do. [applause]"
