"SANTORUM: The middle of America is hollowing out. All you have to do is listen to the last Democratic debate and you would think there was a Republican president in office the way they complained about how bad things are in America and how the middle — the middle of America is hollowing out.",
"I agree with Mike Huckabee. I spent this morning in Chicago at Fabtech, which is a sheet manufac — a sheet metal fabricators conference. Thousands of people there explained the latest and newest technologies.",
"You know what I was told?",
"I was told when I went to booth after booth that there are 250,000 welder jobs open in America — 250,000 welder jobs paying anywhere from $50,000 to $70,000 a year, and if you want to weld pipe on a, you know, for oil and gas pipelines, you can make $100,000 a year.",
"Every manufacturer — I go to one every single week. In fact, I have with me in the — in the crowd here today a gentleman who is a supporter of mine from Rockwall, Texas, Ed Grand-Lienard. He runs Special Products.",
"And he tells me he has jobs open in every skill that he — he — he could possibly hire for in Rockwall, Texas, but he can't find people.",
"So the issue is, yes, we need a tax code. I — I propose a 20 percent flat tax — 20 percent on corporations, 20 percent on — on individuals, full expensing, which will be powerful for manufacturing, a 0 percent rate, initially, for manufacturers.",
"We're going to have a very powerful tax code. We're going to do something about regulation. We're going to suspected every single ObamaCare regu — Obama regulation that cost over $100,000 to the economy.",
"But we have to start doing something about training and employing people who are sitting on the sidelines because they don't see a path. And we have a — a bureaucracy in Washington and a president in Washington — and even among Republicans who think everybody has to go to college. People need to go to work and we need to provide...[buzzer noise]...opportunities for them to go to work out of high school. [applause]",
"SANTORUM: Well, the answer is first that we need to do something about a tax code that doesn't penalize. One thing that I'm excited about our tax code, proposed changes, is it's very pro-family.",
"You have a $2,700 tax credit, period, for every person in that family, so that family, you know, would have about an $8,000 tax credit, which would be refundable. So every dollar she works, she's still only losing 20 cents.",
"The problem with the tax code today, because of all the different provisions, you're right, you go back to work, you lose welfare benefits, you're losing money. Throw on top of that the — even a bigger problem, over 50 percent of children being raised in a home today of a single mom are raised in a home where the father is born — father is (sic) living at the child — the time the child is born.",
"Now what does that mean? That means we have incentivized people not to marry. We've incentivized people to cohabitate instead of not marry, why? Because mom will lose welfare benefits if she marries father.",
"It's not just mom going back to work, but it's mother and father marrying to form a more stable family for that child to be raised in a two-parent family.",
"So we've got all sorts of really corrupt incentives that were put in place, well meaning by the left. But we need to remove those. We need to remove those incentives. We need to adopt a tax code that says we're going to be pro-family and pro-work. And that's what we'll do. [applause]",
"SANTORUM: Absolutely. I'm a capitalist, not a corporatist. I'm not someone who believes we should be bailing out corporations whether their auto industries, or banks. [applause]",
"And, it is simply a matter that there's auto industry — the auto industry would have survived, it would have survived through a bankruptcy process of — instead of Washington picking a winner and a loser. And, in this case, the losers are the bondholders, and the winners were the unions. That's fine. They did it, the unions — the unions survived. We — we have not survived in continuing to grow manufacturing jobs. We have a — we have a president, and an economy right now, that is killing — choking our ability to be able to compete.",
"I'm one of the few people up here who actually believes that we need a level playing field when it comes to manufacturing. That means a good tax code, a good regulatory environment, low energy prices, better opportunities for workers to get training, and, also, I'm — a supporter of the EXIM bank. Everybody else on this stage, everybody else, I think, in the entire field, is opposed to it.",
"Why can you — how can you come out and say I'm for manufacturing when a majority of republican congressmen and senators supported the EXIM bank because it means jobs for American workers here in America. The fact is that we've seen already G.E. lose jobs here in America, and just move those jobs to France and Hungary. We have a right as a country to compete with other countries that have export financing.",
"Every major manufacturer, 60 countries, competes against America, wants to take our jobs, and we have every Republican candidate — you want to talk about communicating to workers here in Wisconsin? [bell rings]",
"Ask them why we're tying one hand behind our back and saying go out and compete. [applause]",
"SANTORUM: ...Let me settle this argument...",
"SANTORUM: ...Well...",
"SANTORUM: I'll answer that in a second, but, I want to answer this other problem because this is a real legitimate debate between Chris and Bobby, and if somebody says we need someone who can win in a blue state, and Bobby says we need a real principled conservative. [audience reaction] [applause]",
"Ninety-two percent conservative voting record, unlike some of the other senators that Bobby mentioned who hasn't done anything to cut federal spending, I was actually the author of welfare reform, which is the only time we've ever seen a federal entitlement actually cut. We cut it. Senate did exactly what every conservative says they want to do. We took the program, we eliminated the federal entitlement, we blocked (ph) to the state, we capped the amount of money, cut it by about 10%, and then put two requirements, work, and time limits.",
"We need to do that with the rest of the — means (ph) tested federal entitlements. I've done it.",
"And I did it with a bipartisan support in the House and Senate, and after fighting two presidential vetoes by Bill Clinton.",
"So I had a democratic president we had to get this through. No record of accomplishment. I agree with the folks who are from the Congress in this race. I have a record of accomplishment of being a conservative on everything.",
"National security, on moral and cultural issues, on the economy, and twice won a blue state. The first time I beat the author of Hillarycare. I had Bill and Hillary in my state, James Carville managed the race against me, a state with a million more Democrats than Republicans.",
"And I ran on health savings accounts, on private sector health care, as a conservative, pro-life, pro-family, and I won. And then in 2000, I was the only senator to win a state as a conservative that George Bush lost.",
"You want someone who can win Wisconsin, Minnesota, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Ohio, with a conservative message, I'm your guy. [applause]",
"SANTORUM: I'll be happy to answer that if you give me more time.",
"SANTORUM: I'm going to answer two questions for the price of one. The infrastructure question, the answer is...[laughter]",
"We need to get the federal government out of this infrastructure business, other than vital economic highways. It has been said that if we cut the gas tax to 3 to 5 cents and send the rest back to the states, and just take care of the federal infrastructure that's vital for our economy, let the — we don't need the federal government and the road business that it is today. Number one.",
"Number two, you know who I respect in the Democratic Party? You know why I respect them? Because they fight! Because they're not willing to back down, and they're willing to stand up and fight and win. And so I respect them because they are willing to take it to us.",
"SANTORUM: Well, I'll tell you, I have a 20 percent flat tax. That's one all income — so capital gains, corporations, individuals, 20 percent. I think that's a fair number, one out of five, to be able to — to help support the federal government.",
"By the way it also approximates, if you take out some of the deductions, it approximates how much the federal government is, on average, spent of GDP, which is about 18 to 19 percent of GDP.",
"So it actually fits with shrinking the size of government down to more like post-World War II levels.",
"So the second thing we do is I don't allow for deductibility of state and local taxes, which will require state and local taxes to go down in order to be treated for their — for their people to be treated fairly.",
"So the answer is, 20 percent and probably 33 percent overall.",
"SANTORUM: Well, I don't — I agree with Governor Christie, I don't think you can make it any more political than it's been. They — they are protecting a president that is over-taxing and over- regulating, shutting down this economy. And he — and they're keeping it up like Atlas, trying to hold up the Earth by — by these ridiculously low interest rates.",
"And it's hurting American seniors, who are seeing no Social Security increases, seeing no — no savings. They're — they're putting their money aside. They're getting nothing in their deposit accounts.",
"This is hurting the people who have acted responsibly, all in favor of those who, um, you know, are — are speculators and — and those on Wall Street. It's not a good deal for — for the vast majority of responsible Americans.",
"The other thing we have with the Fed is they've been given way too much authority. Under Dodd-Frank, they've been given this enormous new authority. I mean they — they now have almost become the most powerful entity in Washington, DC.",
"We need to repeal Dodd-Frank, get away that authority from the Fed and put them under more — more scrutiny.",
"That's only part of the problem. I understand the Fed is interesting for a business channel, but I think for most Americans, the most important business is the family. And we haven't really talked much about the importance of the family to the economy.",
"And — and ladies and gentlemen, every single book, from left to right, that's been written over the last couple of years has said the biggest problem in America today at the hollowing out of the middle of America is the breakdown of the nuclear family in America.",
"We'd better be the party that's out there talking about this issue and what we're going to do to help strengthen marriage and return dads into homes in all communities. [applause]",
"You want to talk about the communities that are hurting the most, the ones you see the protests in...[buzzer noise]...there are no dads. And we need to do something about it. [applause]",
"SANTORUM: Happy Birthday.",
"SANTORUM: — States Marine Corps.",
"SANTORUM: That's very personal to me. I grew up on a V.A. grounds. I lived in apartments on V.A. grounds my entire childhood. Both my Mom and Dad, after World War II, marry — met at a V.A., married, and that's where I lived. Kitchen table discussion was, particularly when I was growing up in the 1960's and 1970's, was the decline of the V.A.",
"When they joined in the early 1950's, the V.A. was the top. They were the best, they were the best and brightest coming in after the war. And, we believed in the cause that we fought, and we invested in our hospitals to make sure that our veterans who left World War II were taken care of. But, after Vietnam, and during Vietnam, that began to change, and it really hasn't recovered since.",
"The bottom line is the V.A. is antiquated. There's no need for a V.A. healthcare system as it existed after World War — why? Because we have the best private healthcare system in the world, we didn't need — we needed it in 1950's, hospitals were not particularly advanced, so, we built the best. We didn't maintain the best. Government didn't keep its promises to its veterans. So, what we need to do is two things. Number one, we need to allow veterans to go to private sector hospitals for their routine and ordinary care to get the best care in their community possible. [applause]",
"And, there is a place for the Veterans Administration. There are injuries, and there are — things like PTSD, or prosthetics that are uniquely problems within the veterans community where we can develop centers of excellence within — and replace the V.A. with a group of...[bell ringing]...centers of excellence that can help our folks to come back...",
"SANTORUM: It should come as no surprise to Chris, or anybody else, that Barack Obama doesn't stand behind our men and women in uniform here at home because he hasn't stood behind them overseas.",
"The rules of engagement that we've allowed our soldiers to go and fight against have put them in harm's way for political purposes. This has been the most politicized wars that we've ever seen under this administration. He gets in, and gets out, based upon what the polls are saying, what pressure he's getting from groups. Talk about a Commander in Chief.",
"We need a commander in chief who has a vision and plan of how we're going to execute the national security of our country. Commander in chief is not an entry level position. Experience matters, and that's why I would ask for your support as a Commander in Chief, because I have the experience against the enemy...[bell ringing]...to confront to do the job. [applause]",
"SANTORUM: I announced from a factory floor in Western Pennsylvania. This campaign has all been about two words for me, working families. Working. Getting people the opportunity to see those wages rise, to be on the side of the American workers so they can get good paying jobs, and that means we have to start making things in America again. We need a president who's going to not just put policies in place, but is going to stand up at the bully pulpit and talk about the dignity of being a welder. The dignity of being a carpenter, about going to work and earning success.",
"And, also, the importance of families, the importance of families and fathers, and mothers raising their children, and committing to that so that they can give children in our country the best opportunity to success. Working families is the key for us to win this election. [applause]"
