"SANTORUM: Hi, I'm Rick Santorum. Some of you may know me because I led the fight to end partial birth abortion. Some of you may know me because the I led the fight to end welfare as we know it, put people back to work, reduce poverty and reduce the federal budget.",
"Some of you may know me because I successfully put sanctions on the Iranian nuclear program in Congress, over opposition of both parties initially.",
"But hopefully, most of you know me most because I'm the proud father of seven children with particularly a special little disabled girl, who is the heart and core of my heart and married to a wonderful woman named Karen for 25 years, who is the love of my life. [applause]",
"SANTORUM: I think personal attacks, just please one person, Hillary Clinton.",
"And all we do when we go after each other -- and we've seen a bunch of it, from people up on this stage, people who are going to be on the stage afterwards, who go after and make personal attacks on people. There are plenty of policy differences between the candidates up here and the candidates later.",
"Donald Trump has ever right to run for president as a Republican, as anybody else in this audience, and he may have positions I disagree with, but he has the right to do that and the people should be given the benefit of the doubt for people to see through these things.",
"I don't think it helps when Republicans attack Republicans personally. I'll say some things tonight which will be very big differences. The issue of immigration is one that there are huge differences in this field, and I will be out there talking about how we have to control immigration. How we have to look after the American worker.",
"The focus of this debate should be on how we're going to win this election and help improve the quality of life for American workers, and we aren't doing that, when we're out there picking at each other and calling each other names.",
"The name we should call out is, what are we going to do for average Americans losing ground in America today. And that should be our focus.",
"SANTORUM: Well, in fact, just about everybody in this field supports some pathway to citizenship. There are just a few, Governor Jindal, Senator Cruz, Senator Rubio, Jeb Bush, a lot of others, Senator Graham, all support some sort of amnesty at some point in time or another.",
"And this is really the interesting thing about this whole debate. This debate should not be about what we're going to do with someone who's here illegally.",
"This debate should not be about what we're going to do with someone who's here illegally; This debate should be about what -- what every other debate on every other policy issue is in America. What's in the best interest of hardworking Americans? What's in the best interest of our country.",
"We've had to focus because the other side has set up for us, here is who we have to be concerned about on the issue of immigration, someone who's here illegally and their family, and what are we going to do about it? A greater leader will see that the objection of every law in America is to do what's in the best interest of America.",
"And what's in the best interest of America right now is to look at wages, look at employment among wager earners. 70 to 90 percent of people who've come into this country, 35 million over the last 20 years, are wage earners that are holding wages down, taking jobs away from America.",
"SANTORUM: Well, just because you don't call it amnesty doesn't mean that what -- what almost everybody in this field is for is allowing people who are in this country illegally, people who broke the law to come into this country, people who came here legally and overstayed, to stay in -- in America.",
"Again, we have 35 million -- we have the highest percentage of -- of -- of immigrants in this country, as far as numbers ever, as far as percentage, the -- the highest in 105 years. Wages are flatlining.",
"The reason that you're seeing the angst and the anger out there and the reason this issue has taken off is because workers in America know that their wages are being undermined.",
"If you look at, from the year 2000 to the year 2014, there're 5.7 million net new jobs created. What percentage of those jobs are held by people who weren't born here? The answer is all of them.",
"The fact is, American workers are -- are getting hurt by immigration...",
"SANTORUM: ... and that's why they're upset.",
"SANTORUM: ...Hold on, hold on, hold on...",
"SANTORUM: ...He mentioned my name, and that i didn't have a plan. And, the fact of the matter is...",
"SANTORUM: ...that I did have a plan back in 2006. I introduced a plan called, A Comprehensive Border Security Bill, which did, in fact, put the resources to build the fencing, and deploy the troops, and the technology necessary which...",
"SANTORUM: As you know, Lindsay...",
"SANTORUM: ...As you know, 40 to 60 percent of the 11 million are here on visa overstays. We know exactly who they are, we should know where they are, but we have a government that doesn't tell them to return home. You can solve half of the problem of the 11 million...",
"SANTORUM: ...by simply telling the 11 million that they have to return to their country of origin, so, that's half your problem...",
"SANTORUM: ...Now, it's not 11 million...",
"SANTORUM: I don't know how many democrats I had on my bill...",
"SANTORUM: But, the point is -- the point is is that I had a bill...",
"SANTORUM: Well, you're right, Lindsay, it went no where because we had a president back then who was for more comprehensive immigration reform...",
"SANTORUM: ...That's right...",
"SANTORUM: You know what we need to do...",
"SANTORUM: Lindsay, is we need to win -- we need to win fighting for Americans. We need to win fighting for the workers in this country...",
"SANTORUM: ...who are hurting, including including hispanics...",
"SANTORUM: ...the people who are hurt the most by illegal immigration are hispanics.",
"SANTORUM: ...The folks -- the folks who are -- hurt the worst are recent immigrants. By illegal immigrants coming to this country last year alone, 700,000 illegal immigrants came into this country. Who do you think are most impacted? It's the folks who came into this country, played by the rules, did what they were supposed to do. Came here, and went to work, and now they're finding themselves out of work because someone illegally is willing to come in and work for less...",
"SANTORUM: I just want to say -- I just want to say, I have seven kids, I've done my part.",
"SANTORUM: I have proposed 10,000 troops, I did so about six or seven months ago, that we needed to deploy additional troops to do exactly what Lindsey said, arm the Kurds, arm --",
"[crosstalk]",
"SANTORUM: I've said -- I've said 10,000 and, if more is necessary, look, the answer is this, once ISIS established a caliphate, the game changed because once you establish a caliphate, you have an area of control, you have to take ground from that caliphate, because if you don't, then, in the Islamic world, it's seen as a legitimate caliphate.",
"As long as they have territorial integrity, and even expand it, they have legitimacy and much of the Muslim world to call people to join their jihad here in America as well as in Iraq and in Syria. So we must take their ground.",
"SANTORUM: 16 years ago, this country was tremendously inspired by a young woman who faced a gunman in Columbine and was challenged about her faith and she refused to deny God. We saw her as a hero.",
"Today, someone who refuses to defy (sic) a judge's unconstitutional verdict is ridiculed and criticized, chastised because she's standing up and denying -- not denying her God and her faith.",
"That is a huge difference in 16 years. People have a fundamental right in the First Amendment. There's no more important right. It is the right that is the trunk that all other rights come from, and that's the freedom of conscience.",
"And when we say in America that we have no room -- how many bakers, how many florists, how many pastors, how many clerks are we going to throw in jail because they stand up and say, \"I cannot violate what my faith says is against its teachings\"? Is there not room in America? I believe there has to be room.",
"First, I believe we have to pass the First Amendment Defense Act, which provides that room for government officials and others who do not want to be complicit in what they believe is against their faith.",
"Second, we need as a president who's going to fight a court that is abusive, that has superseded their authority. Judicial supremacy is not in the Constitution, and we need a president and a Congress to stand up to a court when it exceeds its constitutional authority. [applause]",
"SANTORUM: I hope so. If they're wrong.",
"SANTORUM: No, what you have is judicial supremacy. You don't have a rule of law when the court has the final say on everything.",
"SANTORUM: Martin Luther King wrote a letter from the Birmingham jail. And he said in that letter that there are just laws and there are unjust laws. And we have no obligation to -- to condone and accept unjust laws.",
"And he -- and they -- then he followed up and said what's an unjust law?",
"An unjust law is a job that -- a law that go against the moral code or God's law or the natural law.",
"I would argue that what the Supreme Court did is against the natural law, it's against God's law and we have every obligation to stand in opposition to it.",
"UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Jake...",
"SANTORUM: Well, contrary to what Governor Jindal said, Governor -- Justice Roberts had a long record and it was a long, good record. And so he made a bad decision on -- a couple of bad decisions on ObamaCare but he's made a lot of great decisions, too.",
"And so I don't -- I don't regret at all standing up for John Roberts but, you know, it's easy to sit out in Louisiana and talk about how, you know, well, I'd be tougher.",
"I fought when I was in the United States Senate. We fought, for the first time, to defeat justices and judges that Bill Clinton nominated and I fought with President Bush to defend his nominees, to push even a filibuster, breaking the filibuster. I led that fight against someone who didn't want to end the filibuster in order for us to get good, conservative justices.",
"So I have been there on the front line, fighting for judges and conservative justices and I will do so as president like none other.",
"SANTORUM: Actually, I'm going to be proposing a plan, I call it the 20/20 perfect vision for America as flat tax, a 20 percent flat tax on income, 20 percent flat tax on capital gains and on corporations.",
"We eliminate all the deductions, special interest provisions and corporations. We deal with the carried interest issue, because everybody pays the same 20 percent. So, there's no advantage as to how you take your income. That will create growth.",
"We're going to allow expensing for corporations.",
"For manufacturing, again, I print -- I pledged, when I announced that I was going to run for president on the factory floor that I would make America the number one manufacturer in the world. Why? Because we need to put Americans back to work.",
"Hard working Americans, who are not doing well in this economy, and we start creating jobs here, and manufacturing. These people from all skill levels are going to be able to work. We put a 20 percent rate on corporations, we're competitive with almost every country in the world. We allow for expensing, we have a three year phase in. We start at zero for manufacturers, phase it up to 20. You're going to see an enormous investment of capital, and equipment. You're going to see people -- you're going to have problems finding folks are going to be able to work in manufacturing. That's how many jobs we're going to create.",
"So, the answer is, you know, we're going to lower, and flatten taxes. We're going to put government on a -- on a budget. A 10 percent across the board cut...",
"SANTORUM: ...employment. We've got a lot of plans.",
"SANTORUM: ...Let me just...",
"SANTORUM: ...He talked about manufacturing, and the fact is that we have a zero percent rate that faces the 20, we'd have a seven percent repatriation, so money -- about two trillion dollars over seas...",
"SANTORUM: ...Would come back, and be invested in equipment here. We will create more jobs with this plan, than any plan out...",
"SANTORUM: Lindsay, what percentage of American workers make the minimum wage right now?",
"SANTORUM: It's less than one percent.",
"SANTORUM: ...So, what you're saying, what every Republican's up here saying is we're against the minimum wage because, if you're not for increasing it, than whoevers making the minimum wage right now...",
"SANTORUM: ...The answer is Republicans don't believe in a floor wage in America. Fine, you go ahead and make that case to the American public, I'm not going to. Not from a party that supported bailouts. I didn't, but this party did.",
"MALE: [inaudible]",
"SANTORUM: Not from a party that supports special interest tax provisions for a whole bunch of other businesses, and, but, when it comes to hardworking Americans who are at the bottom of the income scale, we can't provide some level of income support? What I've proposed is not anything but the (ph) presidents (ph) proposed (ph) I believe that would be harmful to the American public, but a $.50 cents an hour increase over three years, which is what I'm proposing.",
"So we would have a minimum wage which would be roughly in the area of what it's been historically, about 5 percent of wages.",
"To me, if you're going to talk to 90 percent of American workers -- by the way, 90 percent of American workers don't own a bar. They don't own a business. They work for a living. They're wage -- most of them are wage earners.",
"And Republicans are losing elections because we're not talking about them. All we want to talk about is, what happened to our business? There are people who work in that business.",
"I was at a -- I was at the convention four years ago, and on the signs -- on all of the seats the night I spoke was a sign that said, \"We built that,\" because Barack Obama had talked about how businesses didn't build their own businesses.",
"Then we trotted out one small-business person after another for almost an hour that night talking about how they built their businesses. And that's wonderful.",
"But you know what we didn't do? We didn't bring one worker on that stage.",
"How are you going to win, ladies and gentlemen? How are we going to win if 90 percent of Americans don't think we care at all...",
"SANTORUM: ... about them and their chance to rise...",
"SANTORUM: As you know, Hugh, 12 years ago I authored the Iran Freedom Support Act, which put sanctions on the Iran nuclear program as we came within four votes of passing a very strong version of that. The four people who opposed on the floor: Joe Biden, John Kerry, Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. And we came four votes short.",
"But for 12 years, I have been laser-beam focused on the issue of Iran with a nuclear weapon. Why? Because I understand who they are.",
"Yes, they are radical Islamists, that's true. But their particular version of it, which is an apocalyptic version, which is a death cult, they believe in bringing about the end of the -- end of the world. If you -- if you poll Iranians and Iraqis, Shiites in the region, more than two-thirds of them believe that the end of the world is going to come within their lifetime.",
"Why? Because their regime preaches it. They believe in bringing about the end of times. That's their theological goal and we are in the process of giving them a nuclear weapon to do just that.",
"That's why, on day one, I would say to the Iranian government, you open up all of these facilities for inspection, you make them available to the U.N. and to the U.S., everything, we can go everywhere or else we will take out those facilities.",
"And when people say, you're going to start a war --",
"SANTORUM: -- my response is, no, I'm going to stop a war because a nuclear Iran is the end.",
"SANTORUM: I came to Washington in the most unlikely way. I defeated a 14-year incumbent, a 60 percent Democratic district. I went to Washington thinking I was only going to be there for one term, and so I just shook things up.",
"We sent the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee to jail. We ended 40 years, 40 years of Democratic control of the Congress. And I led that fight with reforms, substantive reforms, welfare reform. I led the charge -- I wrote the bill when I was in the House. I led the charge in the United States Senate.",
"Partial-birth abortion -- in fact, three pro-life bills, bipartisan pro-life bills. I mentioned the Iran bill. We also passed one on Syria. Health savings accounts, as many of you know, I authored the original bill on health savings accounts, pushed that through the Congress for private sector health care reform.",
"An outsider who came to Washington from the tough state of Pennsylvania, and we got conservative things done. I made things happen in a town where things don't happen very much. Now, after 10 years of seeing the mess, the retreat that we see in the Republican party in Washington, D.C., it's time to get someone who is an outsider.",
"SANTORUM: Who can go to Washington, D.C., and get things done. You know what, you have a lot of folks who will tell you a lot of things. Look at their record. I went to Washington as an outsider.",
"SANTORUM: Shook things up, got things done.",
"SANTORUM: And that's why you can trust me to do it again. [applause]"
