"SANTORUM: Well, if his record was so great as governor of Massachusetts, why didn't he run for re-election? I mean, if you didn't want to even stand before the people of Massachusetts and run on your record, if it was that great, why didn't -- why did you bail out?",
"I mean, the bottom -- the bottom line is, you know, I go and fight the fight. If it was that important to the people of Massachusetts that you were going to go and fight for them, at least you can stand up and -- and make the battle that you did a good job.",
"I did that. I ran for re-election a couple of times, and I won a couple of times, and -- and in a 71 percent Democratic district, when I ran for re-election, I was redistricted. And I was in a 71 percent Democratic district, had a 90 percent conservative voting record. It was a hard thing to do. My district was more Democrat than the state of Massachusetts that I ran in. It was the steel valley of Pittsburgh.",
"And I stood up and fought for the conservative principles. I didn't do what Governor Romney did in 1994. I was running the same year he ran, in 1994. I ran in a tough state of Pennsylvania against an incumbent. Governor Romney lost by almost 20 points. Why? Because at the end of that campaign, he wouldn't stand for conservative principles. He ran from Ronald Reagan. And he said he was going to be to the left of Ted Kennedy on gay rights, on abortion, a whole host of other issues.",
"We want someone, when the time gets tough -- and it will in this election -- we want someone who's going to stand up and fight for the conservative principles, not bail out and not run, and not run to the left of Ted Kennedy.",
"SANTORUM: Vis-a-vis John McCain.",
"SANTORUM: Are you going -- are you going to tell people you're not going to run for re-election for president if you win?",
"SANTORUM: I'm just asking.",
"SANTORUM: So one -- so one term?",
"SANTORUM: I would agree with Governor Huntsman that means testing -- I talked about that in Hollis yesterday. We had about 1,200 people, and I walked through and talked about how we have to make sure that we're not going to burden future generations with a Social Security program that's underfunded. It's already unfunded right now.",
"And we have to take those who have -- who have been successful, who are seniors, who have a tremendous amount of wealth, and we've got to reduce benefits. It makes no sense for folks who are struggling right now to pay their payroll tax, which is the biggest tax. It's tax on labor, makes us uncompetitive. And the idea that someone on the left would have to raise those taxes, to make labor even more uncompetitive for those working people who are trying to get a job to subsidize high-income seniors doesn't make any sense to me.",
"Food stamps is another place. We've got to block grant it, send it back to the states, just like I did on welfare reform, do the same thing with Medicaid. Those three programs. We've got to -- and including housing programs, block grant them, send them back to the states, require work, and put a time limit. You do those three things, we will help take these programs, which are now dependency programs, which people are continually dependent upon, and you take them into transitional programs to help people move out of poverty.",
"SANTORUM: Well, you know, I hear this all the time when I was -- I've been campaigning around the state, you know, we should have the same kind of health care that members of Congress have.",
"Well, that's pretty much what Paul Ryan's plan is. It's a -- the members of Congress have a premium support model. So does every other federal employee.",
"I mean it works very well as, you know, the federal government has a liability. They put -- put money out there and then if you want, you -- you have about this thick, if you're an employee in Washington, DC, have got a whole bunch of different plans to choose from. And you have all sorts of options available to you. If you want a more expensive plan, you pay more of a coinsurance. If you want a less expensive plan, you don't.",
"But here's the fundamental difference between Barack Obama and -- and everybody up here. It's whether you believe people can be free to make choices or whether you have to make decisions for them.",
"And I believe seniors, just like every other Americans, should be free to make the choices in their health care plan that's best for them.",
"SANTORUM: Well, let me first address Congressman Paul, because the -- the serious issue with Congressman Paul here is you're right. He's never really passed anything of any -- any import.",
"And one of the -- one of the reasons people like Congressman Paul is his economic plan. He's never been able to accomplish any of that. He has no track record of being able to work together. He's been out there on the -- on the margins and has really been unsuccessful in -- in working together with anybody to do anything.",
"The problem is that what Congressman Paul can do as commander-in- chief is he can on day one do what he says he wants to do, which is pull all our troops back out of seas, overseas, put them here in America, leave us in a -- in a -- in a situation where the world is now going to be created -- huge amounts of vacuums all over the place, and have folks like China and Iran and others. Look at the Straits of Hormuz, as I said last night. We wouldn't even have the Fifth Fleet there.",
"The problem with Congressman Paul is, all the things that Republicans like about him he can't accomplish and all the things they're worried about, he'll do day one. And -- and that's the problem. [applause]",
"And so what we -- what we need to do is have someone who has a plan and has experience to do all the things Republicans and conservatives would like to do.",
"SANTORUM: And then I'd like my opportunity to come back and answer the question.",
"SANTORUM: Well, it -- it worked in my case. Look at welfare reform. In a federal entitlement that -- I remember standing next to Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Ted Kennedy, who were out there just talking about how this was going to be the end of civilization as we know it, there'd be bread lines, the horrific consequences of removing federal income support from basically mothers with children.",
"And we stood up and said, no, that creating dependency and creating that dependency upon -- upon federal dollars is more harmful than -- and in not believing in people and their ability to work is more harmful. And so we stood up and fought and went out to the American public -- Bill Clinton vetoed this bill twice. We had hard opposition. But I was able to -- to work together and paint a vision.",
"We made compromises, but not on our core principles. The core principles were this was going to end the federal program, we were going to require work, and we were going to put time limits on welfare. I stuck to those principles, and we were able to compromise on some things like transportation funding, and some daycare funding, all in order to get a consensus that poverty is not a disability...",
"SANTORUM: ... and that programs that we need to put in place should help transition people, not make them dependent, and we were able to get 70 votes in the United States Senate, including 17 Democrats.",
"SANTORUM: Surprised he's coming to me. What? What was your question?",
"HILLER: Would you be a voice for speaking out for gay rights in your party? And if not, why not?",
"SANTORUM: I would be a voice in speaking out for making sure that every person in America, gay or straight, is treated with respect and dignity and has equality of opportunity. That does not mean that I would agree with certain things that the gay community would like to do to change laws, with respect to marriage or respect to adoption, and things like that.",
"So you can be respectful. This is the beautiful thing about this country. James Madison called the First Amendment -- he called it the perfect remedy. And that is, people of all different backgrounds -- diversity, opinions, faith -- can come into the public square and can be heard and can be heard in a way that's respectful of everybody else.",
"But just because you don't agree with someone's desire to change the law doesn't mean you don't like them or you hate them or you want to discriminate against them, but you're trying to promote -- excuse me, promote things that you think are best for society.",
"And I do so, and I think if you -- if you watch the town hall meetings that I've been doing all over New Hampshire, I do so in a respectful tone. I listen to the other side. I let them make their arguments. And then we do so in a very -- very respectful way. And you know what? We may not agree. That's why we leave it open to the public to be able to elect members of Congress and the Senate and the president who will support their ideas.",
"HILLER: What if you had a son who came to you and said he was gay?",
"SANTORUM: I would love him as much as I did the second before he said it. And I would try to do everything I can to be as good a father to him as possible. [applause]",
"DISTASO: Governor Perry, we're going to move on. Right-to-work, which outlaws mandatory union membership, as you know, continues to be a major issue in the state of New Hampshire. You've spoken about promoting, having states pass state laws. What about on the federal level? Do you see this as a federal issue and one that you would promote as president or is it a state-by-state...",
"SANTORUM: Yeah, I will. I've signed a -- a pledge that I would support a national right to work. When I was in -- I mentioned this last night. When I was a senator for Pennsylvania, I didn't vote for it because Pennsylvania's not a right-to-work state and I didn't want to vote for a law that would change the law in Pennsylvania, number one.",
"Number two, what can unions do? As -- as Mitt mentioned, they can do training. They also do a lot in the community. I work with a lot of labor unions in Philadelphia and other places to do a lot of community involvement work. And they -- they try to participate as good members of the community, like a business does.",
"SANTORUM: Why -- I said repeatedly that we should have had a funding mechanism and it's one of those things that I had a very tough vote, as you know. In that bill we had health savings accounts. Something I've been fighting for, for 15 years to transform the private sector health care system into a more consumer, bottom-up way of doing it. We also had Medicare Advantage to transform the entire Medicare system into -- Medicare Advantage is basically a premium support type model.",
"[crosstalk]",
"SANTORUM: I -- I think I'm just answering your question. Maybe I'm -- maybe we're not communicating well, but I just talked about the -- the medical -- it's a health savings accounts is an anti- socialistic idea to try to build a bottom-up, consumer based economy in -- in health care. The same thing with Medicare Advantage. And we also structured the Medicare Part-D benefit to be a premium support model as a way of trying to transition Medicare. So there were a lot of good things in that bill. There was one really bad thing. We didn't pay for it. We should have paid for it. And that was a mistake.",
"SANTORUM: They're a -- they're a theocracy. They're a theocracy that has deeply embedded beliefs that -- that the afterlife is better than this life. President Ahmadinejad has repeatedly said the principle virtue of the Islamic Republic of Iran is martyrdom.",
"So when your principle virtue is to die for your -- for Allah, then it's not a deterrent to have a nuclear threat, if they would use a nuclear weapon. It is, in fact, an encouragement for them to use their nuclear weapon. And that's why there's a difference between the Soviet Union and China and others and Iran.",
"SANTORUM: They are not a theocracy. And we're very hopeful of -- of maintaining a -- a more secular state than -- than is in place today.",
"But there is a serious threat. And this administration has bungled it about as badly as they can in trying to con -- continue those positive relationships. We've had some real serious problems with the -- with the Pakistani military, obviously, with respect to Osama bin Laden and with respect to North Waziristan.",
"But you have a -- the reason is we have a president who's just very weak in -- in that region of the world and is not respected...",
"SANTORUM: -- and -- and therefore, he's not a -- he's not been able to have that strong hand in working with Pakistan that they're used to.",
"SANTORUM: I haven't written a lot of books. I've written one. And it was in response to a book written by Hillary Clinton called \"It Takes a Village.\" I didn't agree with that. I believe it takes a family, and that's what I wrote.",
"And I believe that there's one thing that is undermining this country, and it is the breakdown of the American family. It's undermining our economy. You see the rates of poverty among single- parent families, which are -- moms are doing heroic things, but it's harder. It's five times higher in a single-parent family.",
"We -- we know there's certain things that work in America. The Brookings Institute came out with a study just a few -- couple of years ago that said, if you graduate from high school, and if you work, and if you're a man, if you marry, if you're a woman, if you marry before you have children, you have a 2 percent chance of being in poverty in America. And to be above the median income, if you do those three things, 77 percent chance of being above the median income.",
"Why isn't the president of the United States or why aren't leaders in this country talking about that and trying to formulate, not necessarily federal government policy, but local policy and state policy and community policy, to help people do those things that we know work and we know are good for society? This president doesn't.",
"In fact, he has required programs not to talk about marriage, not to talk about abstinence, if -- in order to get federal funds. He's working exactly against the things...",
"SANTORUM: ... he knows works because he has a secular ideology that is against the traditions of our country and what works."
