"SANTORUM: Well, all he has to do is listen to the Democratic debate and find out how bad the economy is. All they do is complain about the hollowing out of the middle of America, and how America is struggling so badly, and have to make these radical changes in Washington.",
"But they've been in control for the last seven years, and what have we seen? The most important jobs, I believe, in this country are the ones that fill the middle. For the 74% of Americans who don't have a college degree between the age of 25 and 65 are manufacturing jobs. Your governor, and your legislature, and your team here have done an amazing job of bringing manufacturing jobs back to South Carolina. [applause and cheering]",
"Right here. Right here in Charleston, right down in the street in Boeing. You've done a great job, and what's happened? You've grown this economy, you've strengthened the center of your state, the middle. That's because you know that if you're really going to create wealth and opportunity, you got to get jobs, and good paying jobs for everybody.",
"And, so what's happened? Two million jobs, manufacturing jobs, have left this country because of Barack Obama. Regulations, EPA, workplace regulations, things driving people off-shore all because of his number one priority, global climate change.",
"Well, let me tell you this, Mr. President. For every dollar of GDP, China creates five times as much pollution as we do here. You want to — lower global climate change, bring those jobs back to America and let American workers do that job with less pollution. [applause]",
"SANTORUM: Well, the historic promises that we have made to — to Iran in this agreement need to be torn up on the first day in office of the next president. [applause]",
"And let me tell you why, because Iran has already torn it up. Iran has not approved the agreement that President Obama has said that they have approved. They have approved a different agreement in their parliament.",
"The fact of the matter is they have violated this agreement. Carly just mentioned some of those violations.",
"They have launched ballistic missiles, tested them, in clear violation.",
"And here's the pathetic part. The president announced that they were going to impose sanctions. And then President Rouhani went on Twitter and said there would be retaliation.",
"And what did we do?",
"We backed down.",
"Ladies and gentlemen, there are 50 some Citadel cadets in this audience tonight. [applause] I would ask them to stand up if they will. And here's what I want to tell each and every one of them, as you stand. Here's what I want to tell them. [applause] Whether it's you're watching that movie this weekend that just came out when we abandoned our men and women in Benghazi, or whether it's we treat Iran, that gave courtesies to our sailors, as they made them record a hostage video, let me tell you this, if you choose to serve this country, I will have your back. I will not let America be trampled upon anymore by these radical jihadists.",
"SANTORUM: I would just say that if we were doing a better job within the government, we wouldn't need the private sector to do the things that we're asking them to do. [applause]",
"I've had a little experience in this in the private sector myself. And what I found was a government with layers and layers of bureaucracy, of people who had some technical expertise but they had no authority, number one.",
"And one of the things I found out about in the bureaucracy is if a lot of people have authority, nobody has authority, number one. And number two, that if you don't do anything, you don't get fired.",
"It's only when you do something and something goes wrong, you get fired. So they do nothing. And that's what is happening in our Defense Department right now. We have a capability that they're trying to develop to play defense.",
"We have a lot of technologists that are very skilled. And they're trying to figure out how to play defense. But what we don't have is we don't have folks who are thinking about offense.",
"We don't have war-fighters. We have technologists. Technologists are not war-fighters. Technologists are thinking, how do I protect cyber-security, how do I secure, how do I protect? And we need to have a much more dynamic, how do we — how do we go after them? How do we respond?",
"And we need leadership that's willing to make sure that when someone attacks us — and ladies and gentlemen, they're attacking us as we speak. They're attacking us all day every day, not just the government, but they're attacking private sector companies all day every day.",
"They have to learn that we're going to pay — they're going to pay a price when they do so.",
"And then right now, just like in every other aspect of our national security, people who attack us are not paying a price. We need a leader who will make sure that they know when they mess with America, they're going to pay a price.",
"SANTORUM: Look, Facebook and Twitter can teach us things. We can cooperate with them. We can share ideas and information. But this is a — and this is a very dicey area for the government to go in and require the industry to do its job.",
"It needs to develop that capability. We need to be — have responsible dialogue, but I don't think requirements are the order of the day.",
"SANTORUM: Well, the most devastating attack that could occur is an electromagnetic pulse attack, and that would be an attack that would be triggered by a nuclear explosion in the upper atmosphere of our country.",
"The best way to stop that from happening is to make sure that those who contemplating and actually war-gaming and talking about using it, Iran, doesn't get a nuclear weapon so they can't explode that device. [applause] And the president of the United States has put Iran on a path to a nuclear weapon. And we have done nothing to do anything to harden our grid. There is actually a bill in Congress that would put money forward to try to put redundancy and harden our electric grid so it could actually survive an EMP.",
"An EMP is a devastating explosion that sends a pulse that knocks out all electric, everything, everything that is connected to any kind — that is wired, that has a circuit board gets fried out. Everything is gone. Cars stop. Planes fall out of the sky.",
"This is a devastating attack. And this president has done nothing, number one, to take the most probable person to — probable country to launch an attack and stop them, and has done nothing to try to defend us, particularly our electric grid. The bottom line is, I put the original sanctions on the Iranian nuclear program when I was in the United States Senate. I've been fighting for 12 years with one thing in mind, that we must stop Iran from getting a nuclear weapon. And...[applause]...because they're different than every other country. They do not want a nuclear weapon to defend themselves. They want a nuclear weapon to have theological ends to bring about their mahdi so they can control the world. And that is the most serious threat facing this country right now. [applause]",
"SANTORUM: Well, the numbers just don't add up. I mean, they have not added manufacturing jobs. Manufacturing jobs have been lost in this country, 2 million of them. The bottom line is that this president has done more to take jobs away from the hard-working people who are struggling the most.",
"And that's folks who are, as I said, the 74 percent of Americans who don't have a college degree. And they're out there talking about, well, we're going to provide free college for everybody. Well, who is going to pay for it? The 74 percent that don't have a college degree.",
"They're not — nobody is focused. Let's just be honest, nobody is focused on the people who are struggling the most in America today. We talk about immigration. Talk about the president's immigration plan. He wants to bring in more and more people into this country. Let people who are here illegally stay in this country.",
"Almost all of the people who are here illegally, and most of the people who came here legally over the last 20 years, they're working in wage-earning jobs. That is why wages have flat-lined.",
"And we have unfortunately two political parties with most of the candidates in this field for some form of amnesty, some form of allowing people to stay here even though they're here illegally and for increasing levels of legal immigration.",
"I'm someone who believes that we need to be the party that stands for the American worker. And when we say we need to send people back, I mean we send people back.",
"And let me just make one point. I was in Storm Lake, Iowa, the other day, near a Tyson's plant, 91 percent of the kids that go to the elementary school there are minority kids. And they said, well, what are you going to do with all of these people, their families, they've lived here for a long time?",
"I said, I'm going to give them a gift. I'm going to give them a gift of being able to help the country they were born in. And I'm going to export America, the education they were able to see. They learned English language. They learned about capitalism. They learned about democracy. You want to stop flow of immigrants?",
"Let's send six million Mexicans, Hondurans, Guatemalans, El Savadorians...[bell rings]...back into their country, so they can start a renaissance in their country so they won't be coming over here anymore. [applause]",
"SANTORUM: You know, we've had this debate about the economy, and we haven't talked the one issue now increasingly even the right, and even the are coming to agreement. I've run around doing 300 town hall meetings talking about a book written by a liberal Harvard sociologist, not a normal thing for me to be talking about, but I now name Robert Putnam who wrote a book called, \"Our Kids\".",
"And, he wrote this book, I think, ostensibly to support the Democratic argument that the middle of America's hollowing out, and income gap is widening, and rich are getting richer. When he studied all the information as to what was going on, he realized that the biggest reason that we're seeing the hollowing out of the middle of America is the breakdown of the American family.",
"The reality is that if you're a single parent — a child of a single parent, and you grew up in a single parent family neighborhood, you went to that single parent family school, the chance of you ever, ever reaching the top 20% of income earners is 3% in America. At least — I don't know about you, but that's not good enough. And, we have been too politically correct in this country because we don't want to offend anybody to fight for the lives of our children. [applause]",
"You want — You want to be shocked? You read the first few chapters of Mr. — Dr. Putnam' book. He talks about Port Clinton, Ohio and growing up there in the 1950's, and how poor kids actually survived and did well, even though they were poor and disadvantaged. But, then he goes to the towns today and these kids are failing, and failing miserably. They don't even have a shot, and we won't even have the courage to have leadership at the federal level — not with legislation, but the most powerful tool a president have, the bully pulpit to encourage each and everyone of you, churches and businesses, and educators, and community leaders to let's have a national campaign to rebuild the American family, and give every child its birthright which is a Mom and a Dad who loves them.",
"That will change this economy. [cheering and applause]",
"SANTORUM: Ladies and gentlemen, America is frustrated and angry and looking for someone who's a fighter, but I also think they're looking for someone who's a winner. Somebody who can go out there and take on the establishment and make a difference. And take on someone who's going to be the person who's going to be between a Republican holding the presidency and that's Hillary Clinton.",
"And there's one person on this stage, one person in the race who's done it and done it repeatedly. I've taken on Hillary Clinton on the issues you care about. Partial-birth abortion.",
"Go and google Rick Santorum and Hillary Clinton and there you'll see a five-minute debate. I'll let you decide who won the debate. I'll tell you who won, because we passed the bill and I know I'm out of time but I'm going to take some of Rand Paul's time here for a second. [applause]",
"If you're looking for someone who fought Hillary Clinton on Iran's sanctions, she was one of four who voted — who's deciding vote who voted against Iran's sanctions, so we didn't get it in place as earlier as we should have.",
"I've fought battles against her. In 1994, I ran against the Clinton machine. James Carville and Paul Begala, ran the race against me when I took on the author of Hillary care.",
"And each one of those battles, I won. You want a fighter, you want a winner, I'd appreciate your vote. Thank you. [applause]"
