"SANTORUM: Yeah, the jobs can come back if you create a climate for them to be profitable. I -- I -- we have a lot of businesspeople, manufacturers in Pennsylvania. I don't know a single one who wanted to shift their jobs offshore, who didn't want them in their own community to be able to employ people and see the fruits of their labor being benefiting the community that they live in.",
"What happened was, we became uncompetitive. So we need to be competitive. And that's why I've proposed taking the corporate tax for manufacturers and processors, taking it from 35 percent and eliminating it. Zero percent tax. Allow this to be the -- the manufacturing capital of the world again.",
"Take that money, $1.2 trillion that's overseas from manufacturers who did send their jobs overseas, bring it back, zero percent tax rate if you invest it in plant and equipment in this country.",
"Repeal every regulation the Obama administration has put in place that's over $100 million. Repeal them all. May have to replace a few. Let's repeal them all, because they're all antagonistic to businesses, particularly in the manufacturing sector, and do as Governor Perry suggested. We need a bold energy plan -- I put one out there -- to drill -- Pennsylvania, I don't want to brag, Governor, but Pennsylvania is the gas capital of the world right now, not Texas, because we are...",
"SANTORUM: ... we're doing a great job. And energy prices and gas went down by 75 percent.",
"SANTORUM: The cool thing about my plan, as opposed to Herman's plans and some of the other plans out here, it will pass tomorrow. It would pass tomorrow.",
"Why? Because industrial state Democrats want those jobs. And they know if we put a pro-manufacturing jobs plan on the table, it will pass over night. We'll get votes from Indiana and Pennsylvania and Ohio and Michigan, all of those states.",
"So, it's not just proposing a plan that will get things started, that \"The Wall Street Journal\" will smile at -- excuse me, \"The Washington Post\" -- but it's a plan that will actually pass and get things done and bring people together. That's why I put it on the table.",
"SANTORUM: Well, I already put forward a plan.",
"You know, Mitt, I don't want to go to a trade war, I want to beat China. I want to go to war with China and make America the most attractive place in the world to do business. And we need to do that with the agenda that I outlined, which, unlike Herman's plan, which could not pass, because no -- how many people here are for a sales tax in New Hampshire? Raise your hand.",
"There you go, Herman. That's how many votes you'll get in New Hampshire.",
"We're not going to give the federal government, Nancy Pelosi, a new pipeline, a 9 percent sales tax for consumers to get hammered by the federal government.",
"How many people believe that we'll keep the income tax at 9 percent? Anybody?",
"There. That's why people won't trust giving people --",
"[crosstalk]",
"SANTORUM: Hold on.",
"SANTORUM: I am not done yet. I've only been able to answer one question, unlike everybody else here, so let me just finish what I'm saying.",
"SANTORUM: We need to repeal Obamacare. That's the first thing we need to do.",
"SANTORUM: You want to create jobs? I went to OSIPI yesterday and I talked to a small businessman there, and he said, \"I will not hire anybody, I will not make a move until I find out what is going to happen with this health care bill and how it's going to crush me.\"",
"And so, repealing Obamacare, and we can do it, not by waivers. That's the wrong idea, Mitt. The reason it's the wrong idea, because you get a waiver, California going to waive that? No. New York going to waive it? No. All of these states, many of them, liberal states are going to continue on, and then states like New Hampshire that will waive it will end up subsidizing California.",
"[crosstalk]",
"SANTORUM: We need to repeal it...",
"SANTORUM: I know.",
"[crosstalk]",
"SANTORUM: We need to repeal it by doing it through a reconciliation process. And since I have experience and know how to do that, we'll take care of it...",
"[crosstalk]",
"SANTORUM: Through reconciliation, you can repeal the taxes, you can repeal the spending, and therefore, the mandate has no teeth, because there's no tax penalty if you don't enforce it.",
"SANTORUM: Romney's before me, R.",
"SANTORUM: We are in the \"live free or die!\" state, and I oppose the single biggest government intrusion into the private sector, the Wall Street bailout, the TARP program. I opposed it because it violated the principles of our Constitution, the spirit of our Constitution, and because the experience I had that if you open up the door of government involvement in the private sector, some president will and in fact did drive a truck through it and explode the size of the federal government and constrict our freedom.",
"The interesting thing here is, is the four people on this panel that actually supported TARP at the time of its passage are the people who say that they are the anti-Washington candidates, that they are the business candidates. And they are the four on this program that supported the Washington bailout, giving Washington, naively, I would say, tools to constrict our freedom. And since...",
"SANTORUM: My question is -- you prompted it perfectly, because here is my question. My question is, since I think Herman Cain is giving naively a tool in his 999 plan of giving Washington a huge new tax burden -- tax opportunity to get money through a sales tax, can we trust you that with your lack of experience that you won't continually give Washington the ability to take freedom away from freedom-loving people here in the \"live free or die!\" state?",
"SANTORUM: And, by the way, the four people were Governor Huntsman, Governor Perry, Herman Cain, and Governor Romney, all supported TARP.",
"SANTORUM: There is more to it than that. And I agree with Rick, what he said, but the biggest problem with poverty in America, and we don't talk about here, because it's an economic discussion -- and that is the break down of the American family.",
"You want to look at the poverty rate among families that have two -- that have a husband and wife working in them? It's 5 percent today. A family that's headed by one person? It's 30 percent today. We need to do something, and we need to talk about economics. The home -- the word \"home\" in Greek is the basis of the word \"economy.\" It is -- it is the foundation of our country. We need to have a policy that supports families, that encourages marriage...",
"SANTORUM: ... that has fathers take responsibility for their children. You can't have limited government -- you can't have a wealthy society if the family breaks down, that basic unit of society. And that needs to be included in this economic discussion.",
"SANTORUM: A little distraction.",
"[laughter]",
"SANTORUM: [inaudible] I grew up in a steel town. And one of the things that I realized is that, when manufacturing left, a lot of the people in the middle income of America left.",
"SANTORUM: And what we -- I just read a recent study that actually income mobility from the bottom two quintiles up into the -- up into the middle income is actually greater, the mobility in Europe than it is in America today.",
"We need to change that. And the way you do it is by -- by creating jobs in the manufacturing sector of the economy, which is what I will do. It will create that income mobility. It'll create the opportunity for semi-skilled and lower-skilled and -- and skilled workers to rise in society. It will take those people off of occupy and bring them into the workplace, where they can -- they can family- sustaining jobs."
