"TANCREDO: There are a number of things, of course, with regard to Iraq that I think we have found some common ground on, but the reality is this: that it is absolutely true I think that we are in a war with radical Islam. That is the war. A battle is being fought in Iraq. Now, can we win the military battle on the ground? Yes, we can. Our guys are the best in the world, and the people that are serving there cannot be faulted in any way. One of the things, however, that I must say I am concerned about are the rules of engagement, that apparently are restricting the ability of our people to do their job and to protect themselves. No one should ever go into harm's way, no president should ever send anyone in this military into harm's way and keep one arm tied behind them. These rules of engagement have got to be reviewed, and no president should ever pursue them in this wan, or let people go into battle and be actually at risk.",
"TANCREDO: I unveiled a statue for a guy by the name of Danny Dietz in my district, a Navy SEAL. Danny Dietz is dead because the rules of engagement did not allow them to do what they needed to do over there. That is unacceptable. In the broader picture, of course, you are absolutely right. We have to do something about the fact that there is no political or economic solution being developed by the Iraqis. And you have to push them into it. America cannot be the police force in Iraq. It cannot remove itself entirely from Iraq, but Iraq has got to take control of Iraq.",
"TANCREDO: Let me suggest—let me suggest we think about something in the area of health care that perhaps is unique, different and scary to some people, but that is this: The government—it's not the responsibility of the federal government to provide womb-to-tomb health care for America.",
"(APPLAUSE) And so, we constantly debate on exactly what way we want to push government control of this issue, but in every way we're doing it, it's unhealthy. It is unhealthy to have a government health-care plan in America. There are some things we can do, absolutely. The expansion of health savings accounts that increases individual responsibly. The allowing for people to actually take—the reimportation of prescription drugs. And not only that, but let's do something about the 12 million to 20 million illegal aliens in this country that are taking a large part of our health-care dollars.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"TANCREDO: You bet I did.",
"TANCREDO: Yes, the State Department—boy, when they start complaining about things I say, I feel a lot better about the things I say, I'll tell you right now.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"(APPLAUSE) My task as president of the United States is primarily to do one thing—by the way, not to make sure everybody has health care or everybody's child is educated—my task is to do one thing: to protect and defend this country. And that means to deter—and I want to underline \"deter\"—any kind of aggression, especially the type we are threatened with by Al Qaida, which is nuclear attack. I read the national intelligence estimate. I see what they are planning. And I'm telling you right now that anybody that would suggest that we should take anything like this off the table in order to deter that kind of event in the United States isn't fit to be president of the United States.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"TANCREDO: The reason why we absolutely need to go to something like a fair tax—and I am a co-sponsor. And by the way, if you don't understand how it would work, I would suggest to you that you read Neil Boortz's book and John Linder's. It's a perfect explanation of how it works.",
"TANCREDO: Here's—well, then you should know how it works.",
"TANCREDO: The fact is that—but the most important reason, the most important reason to move from an income tax to something like a fair tax—to specifically a fair tax, is because an income tax is designed to manipulate behavior.",
"TANCREDO: It gives the government the power to manipulate your behavior. \"I reward you for the things I want you to do by giving you a tax cut. I penalize you for the things I don't want you to do by raising your taxes.\" That is too much power for the federal government. It is always going to be an overreach of power.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"TANCREDO: I have no doubt of what the greatest mistake in my life has been. And that is that it took me probably 30 years before I realized that Jesus Christ is my personal savior.",
"TANCREDO: Hope—hope in America itself, remembering that we have made a number of mistakes that have turned our friends against us, have encouraged our enemies. I believe that—with all my heart, that it is going to take a leader committed to the ideas of Western civilization, to the rhetorical—to speaking out about the values of Western civilization. We can no longer afford political correctness. We have to tell people that there is something good—not just good, but great—about who we are. That will restore America's faith in itself and the world's faith in America."
