"TANCREDO: The reason why it becomes a national security problem is because the bulk of our imbalance of trade is a result of our importation of oil from countries that are not our friends. That's really where it rests. Most of the rest of the stuff we bring in doesn't constitute that kind of threat to the United States, but when we are supplying funds, supplying the funds for the people in other countries that have an intent, a malicious intent in regard to the United States, it's a national security issue. So, of course, energy independence is one huge step in the direction of trying to alleviate that problem.",
"TANCREDO: I would say there is a way – a very clear way to actually establish what the government needs to do in order to reduce the costs that it incurs and to do what is right, and that is called follow the Constitution of this country. The Constitution is a limiting document. It tells the federal government what it can and cannot do. Today we do far too many things that exceed the constitutional bounds that are placed there. We have a responsibility. It is to protect and defend this country. Concentrate on that. Concentrate on doing what's right and what the Constitution itself gives us the responsibility for, and the rest of that stuff becomes extraneous. And honestly, if you think about it, if you ask America what would you do, what would you sacrifice, the one thing I would say is this: don't ask the government for womb to tomb protection for your life, to build a bubble around you because all of that will cost a humongous amount of money, but we will respond to you, politician will do it because they want the votes. Don't ask, and I guarantee you may administration will remain inside the bounds of the Constitution.",
"TANCREDO: Everyone that is presently paying tax can make a case that they're paying too much. The reality is, of course, you need a different system entirely. We do need to move away from this arcane – a system that taxes productivity, which is what we do, to a system that allows for a fair tax. I believe in that.",
"TANCREDO: NAFTA has been a disaster for a lot of places and especially Mexico. Southern Mexico, it was a disaster. It destroyed the entire agricultural economy. Guess what happened. They all came north. If NAFTA had worked so well, as everybody on this stage appears to think it did, why would we still have so much pressure on our southern border from people trying to escape from a country that does not provide them with the economic opportunities that NAFTA promised? What, of course, is also engrained in this whole discussion is the lack of sovereignty, the fact that our borders are meaningless, the fact that Mexican trucks can come across without – essentially without being checked. These are the problems with NAFTA, and they have to be unwound.",
"TANCREDO: No, I don't believe in mandates. I believe the market is the best determinant of exactly how these problems should be addressed. I do not mind and I would not be opposed to research and development, but the idea that the government knows the right amount somehow, some way, some brilliant analyst, usually some politician who hasn't the brightest idea of the issue, will make a decision about what is the right amount of mandate to impose on the rest of the country. And you know what? It never works out right. Let the market – I trust the market more than I do the government.",
"TANCREDO: We have had 45 years of unlimited immigration, both legal and illegal, into this country. That is a problem, unlimited massive immigration is a problem. But when it happens commensurately without the same amount of assimilation, it becomes a catastrophe. It will become what Teddy Roosevelt warned of when he said you can have immigration, but if it happens without assimilation, all you end up with is not a nation, but a polyglot boarding house. Some of my friends on the stage, both governors and senators, say we should trust their judgment. Well, their judgment is what got us into this problem, so we need to trust somebody else to get us out.",
"TANCREDO: I had the opportunity to serve under Ronald Reagan as the regional director for the U.S. Department of Education. Our task was to try to narrow it down because we knew we couldn't legislatively get rid of it, although we wanted to. So I went – in my region we knew we went from about 222 people. It took us about four or five years to get down to about 60 people. I used to always say we've gotten rid of 80% of the people in this department, has anybody been able to tell the difference? Do you know what? Not a single soul said they had. If we had gone to zero, you'd never know the difference. That's because we don't need the department. It's an encumbrance on our attempt to actually teach children in this country. As is the federal government and its intervention and rules. But I don't think, Governor, with all due respect, you can't say on one hand you're against having government intervention and on the other hand tell us you want music and art and everything else in the school. That's not the job of a president. It is the job of a governor. That's what you should run for if you want to dictate curriculum.",
"TANCREDO: The first five minutes after taking office, I would free Ramos and Compean. That's for sure. The second thing I would do is to make sure that we begin the process of securing those borders and enforcing the law inside the United States against hiring people who are here illegally. Then I would use that bully pulpit that the Governor talked about – and he's absolutely accurate in terms of the importance of it for a president of the United States – for this reason: to explain that it is, in fact, a war is not going on in Iraq. That's a battle. We are fighting a war against radical Islam. It is a threat to our existence as a nation, it's a threat to western civilization. It will take someone who's willing to say that and lead western civilization in this clash.",
"TANCREDO: There are two sides to your human component, you know? One is the God-filled side. One is the human side. And there are things that feed either side, you know? And whichever you feed the most becomes the dominant side. And so you have to kind of concentrate on feeding the food side, or else you will lose control over it.",
"TANCREDO: Because of the issue, of course, as I mentioned earlier, is just a battle going on in Iraq. The major battle is, of course, this clash of civilizations. I believe that the whole idea and the whole debate can be narrowed to a relatively small areas on a Web site or any place else, and that is this: we can not leave Iraq. We are committed there and will be for a long time. And I don't care who's elected president, that's the reality of the situation. We can, however, stop, in fact, being the police force in Iraq. And we are doing that. We are moving in exactly the direction that my Web site, the statement anticipates. What more do I have to say? We're getting it done.",
"TANCREDO: Well, it all sounds good, but you asked what we would do – what somebody else we think should do in terms of a resolution. I have to say it because you're leading the pack, now, and congratulations to you, Governor, but I have to ask you – no, no, no, I'm pointing right over there …",
"(Laughter)",
"TANCREDO: Just a minute. Laughter does not count. I have to ask him a question –",
"TANCREDO: And the question is how are you going to convince America that you, in fact, changed your mind on the issue of immigration from when you were governor. That's all I want to know."
