"Tancredo: Yes.",
"Well, I tell you, this has been wonderful. Senator McCain may not be happy with the spirit of this debate. For a guy who usually stands on the bookend here, aside, and just listens all the time, that's kind of frustrating, you know, in other debates. I have to tell you, so far, it's been wonderful.",
"(Laughter)",
"Because all I've heard is people trying to out-Tancredo Tancredo.",
"It is great. I am so happy to hear it. It is a wonderful thing. It's a good message, yes. We want to secure the borders.",
"Tancredo: Let me go ahead and answer that next question.",
"Tancredo: OK, the gist of the question, as I understand it, is, what I'm going to do stop guest workers from coming in here?",
"Tancredo: I'm sorry. I could not hear that. I'm sorry. Well, I'll tell you, I'm not going to aid any more immigration into this country, because in fact, immigration...",
"(Applause)",
"... massive immigration into the country, massive immigration, both legal and illegal, does a couple of things.",
"One of it is, makes it difficult for us to assimilate. The other thing is that it does take jobs.",
"I reject the idea -- I reject the idea, categorically, that there are jobs that, quote, \"No American will take.\" I reject it.",
"(Applause)",
"Now, what they will do...",
"(Applause)",
"... what you can say -- what you absolutely can say to these people is that there are no -- there are some jobs Americans won't take for what I can get any illegal immigrant to do that job for. Yes, that's true.",
"But am I going to feel sorry if a business has to increase its wages in order for somebody in this country to make a good living? No, I don't feel sorry about that and I won't apologize for it for a moment. And there are plenty of Americans who will do those jobs.",
"(Applause)",
"Tancredo: Yes, I can. I have the highest rating, by the way, from the American Conservative Union of anybody on this stage, and yes to Grover because he knows I have the highest rating from the Americans for Tax Reform.",
"(Applause)",
"Tancredo: Thank you very much, Grover. Appreciate it.",
"Tancredo: This issue of immigration is one of the most serious public policy issues we face.",
"Tancredo: We have got to actually begin the process of assimilating people.",
"Tancredo: We are obfuscating and using words like: Well, I am not for amnesty, but I am for letting them stay.",
"Tancredo: The Republicans can stop this.",
"(End videotape)",
"(Applause)",
"Tancredo: It is illegal to import that kind of thing. The problem is, of course, no one really pays a lot of attention to a lot of our laws, with regard to immigration of both people and, now in this case, of course, items, goods and services.",
"I voted against permanent normalized trade relations with China -- this is one reason why. It wasn't -- that was never devised simply to be a place for us to sell our products; it was devised to be a place where we could get cheap labor to then import products to the United States.",
"So, one of the things you'd have to do, and I certainly would intend to do, is to change our trade arrangement entirely -- with China, by the way, in particular, but with other countries, as well, that violate those agreements.",
"Tancredo: The question is: What would Jesus do? Well, I'll tell you this. I would pray to him for the wisdom and the courage to do the right thing. And I believe that with prayer, he would give it to me.",
"And I believe that justice was done in the situations that the governor has explained. And, as I say, I look to him for guidance in all those kinds of situations.",
"Tancredo: I wish that we lived in the world that Ron is describing -- I wish that we lived in a world where we did not have to worry. By simply removing our forces, we would be safe.",
"Unfortunately, Ron, honest to God, I don't believe that that is the case. We are living in a world where we are threatened. It is radical Islam.",
"(Applause)",
"It is -- the ideology, the political and religious ideology of radical Islam is a threat to America, and it would be a threat to America if we never had a single person serving anywhere outside this country.",
"Tancredo: The question is a serious one and it deserves a serious answer, and that is this: Look, we've been -- how many times up here, how many questions have dealt with the issue of deficit spending, the debt out of control? And yet, we have somebody saying, \"But would you spend more money on going to Mars?\"",
"And the suggestion that we need to spend more money on space exploration. This is it, folks. That's why we have such incredible problems with our debt, because everybody's trying to be everything to all people.",
"We can't afford some things, and by the way, going to Mars is one of them."
