"THOMPSON: Well, we've got an hour and a half.",
"Maybe they can work on it.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"But, they...",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"Actually, Mitt, I didn't know there was any room to the left of Ted Kennedy, but maybe there...",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"In fact, I didn't know there was any room to the right of him, either, but maybe...",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"I was conservative as soon as I put down Conscience of a Conservative when I was in the college.",
"I came back to a little home town of Lawrenceburg, Tennessee, started the first Young Republicans Club.",
"In eight years -- in eight years in the United States Senate, I fought for tax cuts, a balanced budget, and welfare reform, all of which we achieved, and I also fought for judges who would abide by the Constitution and the law and not make it up as they went along.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"All that time, I compiled a 100 percent pro-life voting record. Now, both of...",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"They're only giving me a minute here. So both of these gentlemen have done some good things in their respective jobs they've had.",
"But you mentioned Mayor Giuliani first. Mayor Giuliani believes in federal funding for abortion. He believes in sanctuary cities. He's for gun control. He supported Mario Cuomo, a liberal Democrat, against a Republican who was running for governor; then opposed the governor's tax cuts when he was there.",
"So I simply disagree with him those issues. And he sides with Hillary Clinton on each of those issues I just mentioned.",
"THOMPSON: You've just go a minute?",
"THOMPSON: OK.",
"THOMPSON: As far as tort reform is concerned, I supported tort reform with regard to securities legislation. I supported tort reform with regard to product liability legislation, things that have to do with interstate commerce. I think it appropriately passed. I supported and worked for those things.",
"Local issues belong at the state level. Most states have passed tort reform.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"THOMPSON: That's our system. It's not all federalized.",
"You know, I'd point out, as far as lawsuits are concerned, I voted for and we passed anti-sanctuary city build, outlawed them. Mayor Giuliani went to court, filed suit himself to overturn our abolition of sanctuary cities. And, fortunately, he lost.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"THOMPSON: No, I...",
"THOMPSON: No, what I said -- what I hope I said was that it was my private law practice, as opposed to my public service. I was a member of a firm, of counsel to a large firm. And it was their client. They asked me to do a little work on it. I made a few calls. And that was that.",
"Frankly, I'd forgotten about it. But they've come forward now, because I'm their worst nightmare.",
"After that happened, I went to the United States Senate and voted consistently against them on every bill that came up. Now they're trying to defeat me.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"THOMPSON: Yes.",
"THOMPSON: Yeah. I did vote for it, and some of those critics were right. And some of us were wrong. What has happened is that, indeed, states have taught to the test. We've not gotten the transparency and the accountability that we thought we were getting.",
"I like the idea of testing. (inaudible) it can't be like Lake Wobegon, where all the children are above average, you know. Everybody's, you know, making 90 on the test, you're not learning very much.",
"I think what we need to do is realize the proper role of the federal government. The federal government only is responsible for about 8 percent of what is spent. We need to concentrate on helping the states, making sure that 8 percent is spent wisely.",
"THOMPSON: But there are a lot of good things going on at the state level, you know, in terms of free markets, in terms of competition, and the things that work in the rest of our society, vouchers, charter schools, things of that nature.",
"States ought to be allowed to experiment and do the things that they know best at the state and local level.",
"And we can't lay all this at the feet of any government. We have to accept some hard truths. Part of the problem in our education system and with our children has to do with the societal breakdown that's going on in this country. We need more fathers to stay and raise their kids.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"THOMPSON: Well, just what I said. Hillary is always a good applause line and almost everything everybody has said has been accurate.",
"If we go down that road, we're going to go down the road of higher taxes. Hillary basically says that, you know, 40 percent of the people pay about 99 percent of the taxes. Why not 30 percent of the people? Why not 20 percent of the people?",
"We're going to have a windfall when the tax cuts expire at the end of 2010. Let's use that money our way. We'll go down the road of power spending, where people are told, Don't worry about your kids, don't worry about the next generation, although we're clearly bankrupting them, with regard to their Social Security and Medicare expenditures.",
"THOMPSON: We can't sustain it. But don't worry about that. We'll make it all up out of the rich.",
"The only problem with Democrats is that everybody who works for a living is rich, according to them.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"They say that all we've got to do is bring the troops home, and the world will leave us alone. They're the party that insults our generals and tries our troops in the newspaper. And when they're exonerated, they're on page 15 or 20.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"So what I meant was, if we stick to our basic principles, we will win next November. But we've got to remember our first principles -- the fact that what the founding fathers told us a long, long time ago, that our basic rights come from God, not from government; that we have a system of divided government, both state and local and state and federal level.",
"We believe in free markets. We believe in free people. We believe in free enterprise. And Americans who work hard and play by the rules have a decent chance of living the American Dream, just like I have and so many others have.",
"That's the things that we have to keep in mind. Let's don't get diverted onto some single individual, whoever their nominee is. They're going to lead us down the road to a comfortable mediocrity. And that's not the United States of America I grew up in.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"THOMPSON: Yes. As I think that you have stated them, yes. I don't want to be bound to your exact words, but the principles that you've outlined are absolutely...",
"THOMPSON: ... are absolutely correct.",
"It's based on the notion that there's no reason to run for the presidency of the United States if you can't tell the truth. It's a difficult thing politically...",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"THOMPSON: ... but the fact of the matter is we're bankrupting the next generation. We're spending the money of our grandkids and those yet to be born. They don't have a seat at the table.",
"Our present mandatory spending cycle leaves us in an unsustainable position. The comptroller tells us that, the Government Accountability Office -- everybody that looks at it says it's unsustainable.",
"Can you imagine something that's unsustainable and threatens our economy for our grandchildren and those yet to be born not being discussed more on the campaign trail?",
"I've just set out a couple of things that I think will avoid future generational warfare, where we have to fight over a lot higher taxes or big benefit cuts. If we do some responsible things now we don't have to do that.",
"And the indexing of benefits in the future, from wages to prices, is one way to do that. Current retirees -- or for those near retirement wouldn't be affected. And those retiring in the future would get the same benefits in real dollars as those retiring now, but not more.",
"THOMPSON: Well -- no, it's OK. Let me answer that.",
"I was a father at the age of 17 and a husband at the age of 17. I got started working in a factory. I borrowed and worked my way through. My folks did what they could to help. They were country folks -- came in off the farm.",
"I was able to be an assistant U.S. attorney when I was 28, prosecuting most of the major federal crimes in middle Tennessee -- most of the major ones.",
"THOMPSON: Howard Baker selected me to go to Washington and be his counsel on the Watergate Committee at the age of 30.",
"I came back, took on a corrupt state administration, and won against them. I went to the United States Senate, got elected twice by 20 points in a state that Bill Clinton carried twice.",
"Condoleezza Rice called upon me to head up an international security advisory board to advise her on international security matters. President Bush called me to help shepherd Chief Justice -- now-Chief Justice John Roberts' nomination through the Judiciary Committee.",
"If a man can do all that and be lazy, I recommend it to everybody.",
"(LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE)",
"THOMPSON: And I should add, the most important -- the most important part is I'm a proud father of five; two of them are under the age of four. So let me add that to the list.",
"(LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE)"
