"THOMPSON: I think it's a problem. I think it's a problem not only for the Roman Catholic Church, but it's a problem with the Constitution and the platform of the Republican Party.",
"Every year the Republican Party, both at the state level in Iowa, nationally, are parties that come out very avidly and passionately on being pro-life. And I think any candidate that's pro-choice is going to have a difficulty with the party faithful and those individuals that have come to this district and the state and national meetings and have avowed time and time again that this party, the Republican Party, is a party of pro-life.",
"So anybody that's not pro-life is going to have difficulties. That's the question.",
"Beyond that, however, I think you've got to look beyond just one issue. And the issue that really concerns me, of course, is the health issues of America.",
"And we get tied up in one particular issue and we really don't go to some of the major issues that are affecting America—not that pro-life isn't—but we have to get down—and this debate should be about the major issues affecting the voters of Iowa and nationally, instead of trying to choose one person against another on this campaign.",
"THOMPSON: Every single one of us up here have got issues, positions, and every single one of us believe very strongly of those. And I think that speaks highly of the Republican Party.",
"THOMPSON: Thank you very much. I've laid out a whole plan to really win the peace in Iraq. I've laid out a plan that we have to defend and give all our resources and every single tool possible to our fighting men and women. I have been with them, like a lot of the people up here have, and they're the finest young men and women we'll ever have in our military. But beyond that, it is not fair to America and to Americans to shoulder all of the burden. To pay for a war that's costing us $10 billion a month—and we're not funding, we're just passing on to our children and grandchildren—not requiring the Iraqi government to stand up and vote, that's a failure of Congress and the president of the United States. Because they do need to demand that that government makes a political statement, and help pay for that war, and help fight to win that war. Secondly, I differ with Senator Brownback. They can't even decide in parliament in Iraq whether or not they're going to be able to take a month or six weeks off for summer.",
"THOMPSON: How will they ever decide three particular divisions? They've already got that country divided into 18 states that have been there since 1921. And if, in fact, you're going to elect people, why don't you a elect state leader, like you do in Iowa, like we do in Wisconsin, all over America? And those individual governments will be Shiite, Sunnis and Kurds. And it will stop the civil war. And split the oil revenue between the federal government, the state governments, and every man and woman and child, like we do in Alaska, and give those individuals the opportunity to build their country. That will make a stable Iraq. (inaudible)",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"THOMPSON: David, I want you to know that health care is one of my major dominant fields. I was secretary of health. Neither one of them are right. The problem is, is Governor Huckabee is absolutely correct. We've got a sickness, illness and disease society. We spend 90 percent of $2 trillion, ladies and gentlemen—that's 16 percent of the gross national product—on getting people well after they get sick. Less than 10 percent of the money keeping you out of the hospital, out of the nursing home. Does anybody in America think that's a smart idea? I think it's dumb. Let's go to wellness and prevention. Number two, let's start managing diseases in America. Let's make sure that individuals that are chronically ill and physically disabled are able to get the quality of health and therefore get the quality of life. They take up 66 percent of the cost. You could reduce that down to 50 percent.",
"THOMPSON: Number three—I just would like to say—on the uninsured, you could get one form, like we do on the 1040 for taxes, one form for the employment system, and you could save $137 billion. That would cover all of the uninsured in America without raising taxes, ladies and gentlemen.",
"THOMPSON: I am for expanding SCHIP, but not the way Congress has done it.",
"THOMPSON: But, George...",
"THOMPSON: I would like to...",
"(CROSSTALK) PAUL: ... to speak on this.",
"THOMPSON: Thank you very much, George. I sincerely believe that bombing religious artifacts and religious holy sites would do nothing but unify 1 billion Muslims against us. It makes no sense.",
"(APPLAUSE) TANCREDO: After we take a hit?",
"THOMPSON: I would like to say you have to strengthen your military. What we (inaudible) as Americans, we have to be so politically correct in this country. When we have democracies in South America that are supporting us, we sort of ignore them, until somebody elects a guy like Chavez who hates us. Then we wake up and say something about it.",
"THOMPSON: I think we've got to strengthen our military and we've got to recognize in this world right now we are fighting a holy war. It's a jihad. And until we recognize that and stand up to be Americans and for America, we're going to continue to lose...",
"THOMPSON: I believe that Vice President Cheney is criticized for a lot of things that he doesn't do.",
"(APPLAUSE) And I believe that Dick Cheney is an honorable individual. And I think the president of the United States depends a great deal upon him. But I would like to also quickly point out, since I'm not going to get a chance, is that I don't want to leave this audience—you know, when you said that nobody supports Senator Grassley's SCHIP program, to have the press—because I know how the press acts—that the press will come back, \"All Republicans are against poor children and health care for them.\" That is not what we said.",
"(LAUGHTER)",
"THOMPSON: We said that what we want to do is we want to change SCHIP on a competitive model, against the Democrats...",
"THOMPSON: No, but I really want to make that...",
"THOMPSON: My mother-in-law died of breast cancer, my mother. My wife has breast cancer. My young daughter has breast cancer. I don't think I was supportive enough, and that's why I'm vowing right now to end breast cancer by the year 2015 for all the women in America.",
"(APPLAUSE)",
"THOMPSON: I would open up the East Wing. I would open it up to bring in the best minds—Democrats, Republicans, independents across America—that want to get something done with this great country. Instead of tearing it down, start building, pro-America, and make sure that we're not so politically correct that we are sacrificing our values in America in this jihadist war. And by bringing in the best minds, the best people, we can change the direction and really start building America a stronger and healthier and better tomorrow than ever before.",
"(APPLAUSE)"
