"TRUMP: I criticized Mitt Romney for losing the election. He should have won that election. He had a failed president. He ran a terrible campaign. He was a terrible candidate. That's what I criticize Mitt Romney — I mean, ran...",
"TRUMP: Excuse me. He ran one terrible campaign. That's an election that should have been won. [applause]",
"TRUMP: No, no, I'm the only one on the stage that's hired people. You haven't hired anybody. [applause]",
"TRUMP: And by the way, I've hired — and by the way, I've hired tens of thousands of people over at my job. You've hired nobody.",
"TRUMP: You've had nothing but problems with your credit cards, et cetera. So don't tell me about that.",
"TRUMP: You haven't hired one person, you liar.",
"TRUMP: That's wrong. That's wrong. Totally wrong.",
"TRUMP: I've hired tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. Tens of thousands...",
"TRUMP: Be quiet. Just be quiet. [applause] Let me talk. I've hired tens of thousands of people. He brings up something from 30 years ago, it worked out very well. Everybody was happy.",
"TRUMP: And by the way, the laws were totally different. That was a whole different world.",
"TRUMP: Such a cute sound bite.",
"TRUMP: All right, you know what?",
"TRUMP: Because they devalue their currency — they devalue their currencies...",
"TRUMP: ... that makes it — well, you don't know a thing about business. You lose on everything...",
"TRUMP: Let me just tell you — they de-value their currency. They de-value their currencies.",
"TRUMP: That makes it — well, you don't know a thing about business. You lose on everything you do.",
"TRUMP: Let me just tell you, they de-value their currencies. China, Mexico, everybody. Japan with the cars. They de-value their currencies to such an extent that our businesses cannot compete with them, our workers lose their jobs...",
"TRUMP: But you wouldn't know anything about it because you're a lousy businessman.",
"TRUMP: No, I — and you know why? You know why? [applause]",
"TRUMP: You know why?",
"TRUMP: And by the way — and by the way...",
"TRUMP: ... and by the way...",
"TRUMP: ... I've won most of the lawsuits.",
"TRUMP: Here's a guy — here's a guy that buys a house for $179,000, he sells it to a lobbyist who's probably here for $380,000 and then legislation is passed. You tell me about this guy. This is what we're going to have as president.",
"TRUMP: No, no, no.",
"TRUMP: [inaudible] I took...",
"TRUMP: That is so wrong. We'll work on that. I took $1 million and I turned into $10 billion.",
"TRUMP: I borrowed $1 million...",
"TRUMP: I borrowed $1 million, I turned it into $10 billion...",
"TRUMP: ... more than $10 billion.",
"TRUMP: I have to say, he lied this time. He lied. 100 percent. 100 percent.",
"TRUMP: Yes, yes, yes. 38 years ago.",
"TRUMP: Well, let — let me just say — let me just say, first of all, I have great respect for Justice Scalia. I thought he was terrific. And if you talk about evolving, Ronald Reagan was a somewhat liberal Democrat. Ronald Reagan evolved into a somewhat strong conservative — more importantly, he was a great president. A great president.",
"As far as Planned Parenthood is concerned, I'm pro-life. I'm totally against abortion, having to do with Planned Parenthood. But millions and millions of women — cervical cancer, breast cancer — are helped by Planned Parenthood.",
"So you can say whatever you want, but they have millions of women going through Planned Parenthood that are helped greatly. And I wouldn't fund it.",
"I would defund it because of the abortion factor, which they say is 3 percent. I don't know what percentage it is. They say it's 3 percent. But I would defund it, because I'm pro-life. But millions of women are helped by Planned Parenthood. [applause]",
"TRUMP: I just want to say, I agree with that 100 percent, except pre-existing conditions, I would absolutely get rid of Obamacare. We're going to have something much better, but pre-existing conditions, when I'm referring to that, and I was referring to that very strongly on the show with Anderson Cooper, I want to keep pre- existing conditions.",
"I think we need it. I think it's a modern age. And I think we have to have it. [applause]",
"TRUMP: I think they're wrong 100 percent. What we need — look, the insurance companies take care of the politicians. The insurance companies get what they want. We should have gotten rid of the lines around each state so we can have real competition.",
"We thought that was gone, we thought those lines were going to be gone, so something happened at the last moment where Obamacare got approved, and all of that was thrown out the window.",
"The reason is some of the people in the audience are insurance people, and insurance lobbyists, and special interests. They got — I'm not going to point to these gentlemen, of course, they're part of the problem, other than Ben, in all fairness.",
"And, actually, the Governor too, let's just talk about these too, OK? [laughter]",
"Because I don't think the Governor had too much to do with this.",
"But, we should have gotten rid of the borders, we should have gotten rid of the lines around the state so there's great competition. The insurance companies are making a fortune on every single thing they do.",
"I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm the only one in either party self-funding my campaign. I'm going to do what's right. We have to get rid of the lines around the states so that there's serious, serious competition.",
"TRUMP: ... And, you're going to see — excuse me. You're going to see preexisting conditions and everything else be part of it, but the price will be done, and the insurance companies can pay. Right now they're making a fortune. [applause]",
"TRUMP: That's going to solve the problem. And, the insurance companies aren't going to say that, they want to keep it. They want to say — they say whatever they have to say to keep it the way it is. I know the insurance companies, they're friends of mine. The top guys, they're friends of mine. I shouldn't tell you guys, you'll say it's terrible, I have a conflict of interest. They're friends of mine, there's some right in the audience. One of them was just waving to me, he was laughing and smiling. He's not laughing so much anymore.",
"Hi. [applause]",
"Look, the insurance companies are making an absolute fortune. Yes, they will keep preexisting conditions, and that would be a great thing. Get rid of Obamacare, we'll come up with new plans. But, we should keep preexisting conditions.",
"TRUMP: ... And, you don't know what it means...",
"TRUMP: You don't know.",
"TRUMP: ... The biggest problem...[crosstalk]",
"TRUMP: ... The biggest problem, I'll have you know...",
"TRUMP: ... You know, I watched him meltdown two weeks ago with Chris Christie. I got to tell you, the biggest problem he's got is he really doesn't know about the lines. The biggest thing we've got, and the reason we've got no competition, is because we have lines around the state, and you have essentially....",
"TRUMP: ... You don't know much...",
"TRUMP: ... The lines around the states...",
"TRUMP: ... and, it was almost done — not now...","TRUMP: ... Excuse me. Excuse me.",
"TRUMP: ... You get rid of the lines, it brings in competition. So, instead of having one insurance company taking care of New York, or Texas, you'll have many. They'll compete, and it'll be a beautiful thing.",
"TRUMP: The nice part of the plan — you'll have many different plans. You'll have competition, you'll have so many different plans.",
"TRUMP: No, no, no. [laughter, applause, and cheering]",
"TRUMP: [inaudible]",
"TRUMP: [inaudible] I watched him repeat himself five times four weeks ago...",
"TRUMP: I watched him meltdown on the stage like that, I've never seen it in anybody...",
"TRUMP: ... I thought he came out of the swimming pool...",
"TRUMP: I tell the truth, I tell the truth.",
"TRUMP: ... We're going to have many different plans because...",
"TRUMP: ... competition...",
"TRUMP: There is going to be competition among all of the states, and the insurance companies. They're going to have many, many different plans.",
"TRUMP: No, there's nothing to add. [cheering and applause] What is to add?",
"TRUMP: ... wait a minute, and these people may even be tougher than Chris Christie. OK?",
"TRUMP: OK, no, no, no — a deal is a deal. Let me tell you that. I learned a long time ago.",
"TRUMP: You are not a negotiator. You are not a negotiator. [applause]",
"And, with your thinking, you will never bring peace. You will never bring peace...",
"TRUMP: ... Excuse me, I want to be able to bring peace...",
"TRUMP: I never said walk away. I wouldn't want to walk away. I want them to pay us much more money. We cannot afford to subsidize...",
"TRUMP: A lot. I'll negotiate a lot more money than you'll ever get.",
"As far as John Kerry is concerned, there has been no tougher critic of this man, I think he negotiated one of the worst deals in the history of our country, the Iran deal, where they get their $150 billion and all of the other things that take place.",
"It is a disaster for this country, and speaking of Israel, it's a disaster for Israel. I'm no fan of John Kerry.",
"[crosstalk]",
"TRUMP: You have a combination of factors. He can't do it...",
"TRUMP: ... for the obvious reason, and he can't do it because he doesn't know how to tell the truth. Other than that, I rest my case.",