"TRUMP: Yes, I would. And I've been there. And I've been there very strongly. I do have to say something, and this is interesting and it's not anybody's fault. It's not Ted's fault. Justice Roberts was strongly recommended and pushed by Ted. Justice Roberts gave us Obamacare. Might as well be called Roberts-care. Two times of the Supreme Court, Justice Roberts approved something that he should have never raised his hand to approve. And we ended up with Obamacare.",
"That is a rough thing. And I know Ted feels badly about it. And I think he probably still respects the judge. But that judge has been a disaster in terms of everything we stand for because there is no way — no way that he should have approved Obamacare.",
"Now, with that being said, these are the things that happen. But Ted very, very strongly pushed Judge Roberts, and Justice Roberts gave us something that we don't want.",
"TRUMP: Well, let — let me — let me just say — let me just say this. Look, I watched Ted — and I respected it, but he gets nowhere — stand on the Senate floor for a day or two days, and talk and talk and talk.",
"I watched the other senators laughing and smiling. And when Ted was totally exhausted, he left the Senate floor, and they went back to work. OK? We have to have somebody that's going to make deals.",
"It's wonderful to stand up for two days and do that. Now, Ted's been very critical — I have a sister who's a brilliant...",
"TRUMP: ... excuse me. She's a brilliant judge. He's been criticizing — he's been criticizing my sister for signing a certain bill. You know who else signed that bill? Justice Samuel Alito, a very conservative member of the Supreme Court, with my sister, signed that bill.",
"So I think that maybe we should get a little bit of an apology from Ted. What do you think?",
"TRUMP: When you say crazy zealot, are you talking about you? Crazy zealot — give me a break.",
"TRUMP: That's false.",
"TRUMP: No, I said it worked in a couple of countries...",
"TRUMP: No, I did not. No I did not.",
"TRUMP: Correct. I will not let people die on the streets if I'm president.",
"TRUMP: Excuse me. Let me talk. If people...",
"TRUMP: If people — my plan is very simple. I will not — we're going to have private — we are going to have health care, but I will not allow people to die on the sidewalks and the streets of our country if I'm president. You may let it and you may be fine with it...",
"TRUMP: ... I'm not fine with it. We are going to take those people...",
"TRUMP: Excuse me. We are going to take those people and those people are going to be serviced by doctors and hospitals. We're going to make great deals on it, but we're not going to let them die in the streets.",
"TRUMP: Call it what you want, people are not going to be dying on the sidewalk.",
"TRUMP: Eighty-five percent say you, big difference.",
"TRUMP: So at the beginning, I said openly to everybody that I contribute to many, many politicians, both Republican and Democrat. And I have, over the years. I'm a businessman. I have, over the years.",
"And I sort of have to laugh when Ted makes a big deal out of the fact that he's doing well in the polls. Well, I'm beating him in virtually every poll. I'm tied in Texas, by the way, which I shouldn't be. But I think I'll do very well. [applause]",
"But a poll just came out — a Bloomberg poll — where I am beating him so badly that it's, like, embarrassing even for me to say I'm beating him that badly. [applause]",
"And — and here's the thing — it was sort of funny — 65 percent of the people don't like you — I just got 36 percent of the vote, right? I just got 46 percent on another one. I got 38 percent...[bell ringing]...on another one. That means — and he got 20 and 22, and he lost in South Carolina so badly — that was going to be his stronghold. He said a year ago, \"I can't lose South Carolina.\" I beat him in a landslide.",
"Last week in Nevada, I beat him in a landslide, and he sank about the polls. One other thing — Hillary Clinton — take a look at USA Today, take a look at the Q poll. I beat her, and I beat her badly. And I — and I haven't even started at her. I only had one little interchange...[applause]...I only had one little interchange, and that was...[bell ringing]...four weeks ago, when she said I was sexist. And believe me, they had a rough weekend that weekend, between Bill and Hillary. They had a rough weekend. [applause]",
"TRUMP: Nothing.",
"TRUMP: You — you don't...",
"TRUMP: I'm not afraid [inaudible].",
"TRUMP: Well, then, if I can't — if — hey, if I can't beat her, you're really going to get killed, aren't you? [applause]",
"So — so let me ask you this, because you're really getting beaten badly. I know you're embarrassed — I know you're embarrassed, but keep fighting — keep swinging, man. Swing for the fences.",
"Let me just tell you — let me just tell you, the Trump University case is a civil case. Not a — it's a civil case. It's a case where people want to try and get — it's a case that is nonsense.",
"It's something I could have settled many times. I could settle it right now for very little money, but I don't want to do it out of principle. The people that took the course all signed — most — many — many signed report cards saying it was fantastic, it was wonderful, it was beautiful.",
"As — and believe me, I'll win that case. That's an easy case. Civil case. Number two, as far as the taxes are concerned, I'm being audited. It's a very routine audit, and it's very unfair, because I've been audited for, I think, over 12 years.",
"Every year, because of the size of my company, which is very, very large, I'm being audited — which is a very large company.",
"[bell ringing]",
"TRUMP: Again, I think I gave them both checks to be exactly honest. I think they both liked me very much. But the fact is that ...",
"TRUMP: Well, I think Bush did a hell of a bad as far as that's concerned. You know it and so do I.",
"TRUMP: Be honest. Be honest. No, this was before. The check came early.",
"But let me just tell you, Syria, he's saying that I was in favor of Syria. He said I was in favor of Libya? I never discussed that subject. I was in favor of Libya? We would be so much better off if Gadhafi were in charge right now.",
"If these politicians went to the beach and didn't do a thing, and we had Saddam Hussein and if we had Gadhafi in charge, instead of having terrorism all over the place, we'd be — at least they killed terrorists, all right?",
"And I'm not saying they were good because they were bad, they were really bad, but we don't know what we're getting. You look at Libya right now, ISIS, as we speak, is taking over their oil. As we speak, it's a total mess.",
"We would have been better off if the politicians took a day off instead of going into war. [applause]",
"TRUMP: What I've seen up here — I mean, first of all, this guy is a choke artist, and this guy is a liar. You have a combination...",
"TRUMP: I funded you. I funded him. Can you believe it? [applause]",
"TRUMP: I funded this guy. I gave him a check.",
"TRUMP: I gave him a check. He never funded me.",
"Donald claims — Donald claims to care about...",
"TRUMP: You know why? I didn't want to, but he sent me his book with his autograph...[crosstalk]",
"TRUMP: Mr. Trump, you're doing a great job. I have his book.",
"[crosstalk]",
"TRUMP: Thank you — thank you for the book. Go ahead.",
"TRUMP: This is a lot of fun up here tonight, I have to tell you. [applause]",
"Thank — thank you for the book. I really appreciate it.",
"TRUMP: Go ahead. I'm relaxed. You're the basket case. [crosstalk] Go ahead.",
"TRUMP: Go ahead. Don't get nervous.",
"TRUMP: Go ahead. [crosstalk]",
"TRUMP: I've seen you.",
"TRUMP: You're losing so badly you — I want to...",
"TRUMP: ... I — you don't know what's happening. [crosstalk]",
